DeSantis proposal protects candidates like Trump from social media bans

TALLAHASSEE — On the same day former President Donald Trump's lawyers argued that his words to the mob that stormed the U.S. Capitol were protected by his First Amendment right to free speech, Gov. Ron DeSantis held a hastily-called news conference to announce a proposal to penalize social media companies for blocking politicians, even if they incite violence.

"We've seen the power of their censorship over individuals and organizations, including what I believe is clear viewpoint discrimination,'' said DeSantis as Florida's Senate president and House speaker stood at his side. "Under our proposal, if a technology company de-platforms a candidate for elected office in Florida during the election, a company will face a daily fine of $100,000 until the candidate's access to the platform is restored again."

The proposed bill, which is still being drafted, asks the Florida Legislature to impose penalties for social media companies whose algorithms are perceived to favor one candidate over another. It builds on SB 520, filed by state Sen. Danny Burgess, that would require the platforms to give a 30-day notice to a user whose account has been disabled or suspended and explain why the user was punished.

Although the governor never mentioned the former president, who was banned by Facebook and Twitter after they said he used his accounts to incite violence and disseminate conspiracy theories about the election, the timing of the announcement coincided with the filing by Trump's lawyers in the pending impeachment trial in the U.S. Senate.

In a 14-page brief, lawyers David Schoen and Bruce Castor wrote that when Trump told his supporters "if you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore" it was not meant as a reference to violent action but was intended to be "about the need to fight for election security in general."

They also denied that Trump had incited the riot by disputing the election results or by exhorting his followers to action. By contrast, the U.S. House accuses Trump of "high crimes and misdemeanors" for inciting the violent insurrection.

"The actions by the House make clear that in their opinion the 45th president does not enjoy the protections of liberty upon which this great nation was founded, where free speech, and indeed, free political speech form the backbone of all American liberties," the defense lawyers wrote.

DeSantis, whose allegiance to Trump began when the former president used his Twitter account to endorse DeSantis over his Republican primary rivals in the 2018 Florida election for governor, blasted "the big tech oligarchy" for being "more of a clear and present danger to the rights of free speech, than the government itself."

He accused the social media companies of having a bias against conservatives because they didn't ban from their accounts the supporters of the Black Lives Matter movement and Iranian leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, both of whom DeSantis said used their accounts to incite violence.

"They have so much garbage and filth on that platform, all the time,'' he said. "They did not censor people when they were using those platforms for the rioting that occurred over the summer, so their excuse doesn't hold water."