MyPillow Twitter account permanently suspended following Trump ally CEO Mike Lindell's ban from platform

Twitter has permanently suspended the MyPillow USA account about a week after suspending CEO Mike Lindell's account.

The MyPillow account was suspended Monday for violating the ban evasion policy, Twitter confirmed to USA TODAY.

Lindell, an ally and supporter of Trump, has continued to insist that the presidential election was rigged even after U.S. President Joe Biden's administration has begun. His account was banned after he continued to perpetuate the claim that Donald Trump won the 2020 presidential election.

A cached view of the account shows tweets from Sunday that Lindell told USA TODAY he wrote, which would circumvent his suspension on the platform.

He told USA TODAY he hadn't heard about the ban of his company's account. "I can't believe they're doing this to my company," Lindell said in an interview. "They're out to destroy me."

'BBB meets Consumer Reports': Black Dollar Index ranks companies by support of Black America

Do Facebook, Twitter and YouTube censor conservatives?: Claims 'not supported by the facts,' new research says

Biden and Section 230: New administration, same problems for Facebook, Google and Twitter as under Trump

"Thank you to everyone who has supported MyPillow during this time.....Jack Dorsey is trying to cancel me (Mike Lindell) out!," a tweet Sunday said. "We are extremely busy and hiring as fast as we can to handle all the shipping! Jack will be found out and should be put in prison when all is revealed!"

In another tweet Sunday, the MyPillow Twitter account, which also was used to list promo codes, said "This was the post @jack was upset about when he canceled @realmikelindell! @Jack I know you are tied into the election fraud! You are so afraid of being found out! So many are looking forward to you being brought to justice!"

Lindell said the last tweet the company account posted Monday was a promo code for his memoir "What Are the Odds?" and earlier in the day tweeted out a discount for duvet covers.

Twitter's evasion policy says users can't circumvent permanent suspensions by using other accounts.

"If an account has been permanently suspended for severe violations of the Twitter Rules, Twitter reserves the right to also permanently suspend any other account we believe the same account holder or entity may be operating in violation of our earlier suspension, regardless of when the other account was created," the policy says.