Vijaya Gadde: The Indian-American Lawyer at the Forefront of Trump's Twitter Ban

New York: When Twitter permanently suspended the account of Donald Trump, the microblogging giant's top lawyer, Indian-American Vijaya Gadde, was at the forefront of the unprecedented decision following the attempted insurrection of the US Capitol by supporters of the outgoing president.

Hyderabad-born Gadde, 45, is Twitter's legal, public policy and trust and safety lead.

On Friday, Gadde tweeted that the account of Trump has been "permanently suspended from Twitter due to the risk of further violence". At the time of suspension, Trump had 88.7 million followers and followed 51 people.

According to Gadde's Twitter profile, prior to joining the California-based social media company in 2011, she was senior director of legal at US multinational corporation Juniper Networks. Previously, she worked for nearly a decade at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, a law firm based in California.

Gadde serves on the Board of Trustees of New York University Law School and the Board of Directors of Mercy Corps, a global humanitarian aid and development organisation, which partners with communities, corporations, and governments. She is also a co-founder of #Angels, an investment collective focused on funding diverse and ambitious founders pursuing bold ideas.

Gadde earned a Juris Doctor (JD) degree from New York University School of Law and a Bachelor of Science (BS) in industrial and labour relations from Cornell University.

She moved to the US with her parents as a baby and spent most of her childhood in Texas and New Jersey.

In her free time, she can be found reading fiction or, more likely, chasing her toddler. She also enjoys travelling, cooking and hiking, according to Gadde's profile at Mercy Corps.

An October 2020 article in Politico said while Gadde keeps a fairly low profile outside Twitter, she is known within the company for being close to the company's CEO during Twitter's highest-stakes moments".

When Twitter chief Jack Dorsey met Trump in 2019, Gadde was in the Oval Office with them. She was at Dorsey's side to meet the Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, in India, it said.

She had accompanied Dorsey to Washington to speak with legislators and meet with journalists. Inside Twitter's headquarters, Gadde and Dorsey work from spaces next door to each other, the report said.

I can't imagine a world where Jack looks at her and says, 'No.'," it said, quoting a Twitter official.

A former Twitter official said, "When it comes to going to war, Jack is the president who gives the order. Vijaya is the chairman of the Joint Chiefs." The Politico article said the "war" between conservatives and Twitter is heating up, in part because of Gadde's "unheralded influence" on the iconic social-media company.