Twitter Bans Trump, Removes Tweet by Iran's Khamenei on Same Day, Sparking 'Double Standards' Backlash

U.S. tech giant Twitter took sharply different actions against the leaders of the U.S. and Iran on Friday, permanently banning President Donald Trump's personal account while removing one tweet from Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's apparent English account and suspending new posts on it.

The greater severity of Twitter's action against the @realdonaldtrump account, compared with the social media company's treatment of Khamenei, prompted both critics and supporters of the U.S. president to post dozens of Twitter messages accusing the platform of double standards.

Many of Twitter's critics said the @Khamenei_IR account, which is not Twitter-verified but regularly shares his statements, has a history of posting comments against Israel, his regional enemy, that they view as more severe incitement to violence than recent Trump tweets deemed by the platform to violate its glorification of violence policy.

The chairman of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission, Ajit Pal, tweeted screenshots of some of Khamenei's most strongly worded anti-Israel posts in May, saying he believed they raise a "serious" question about potential glorification of violence.

In a Friday message to VOA Persian, Jason Brodsky, policy director of U.S. advocacy group United Against Nuclear Iran, said: "Twitter accounts of Khamenei, other autocrats and their representatives include deeply hateful and dangerous content that incites violence against groups. We've seen Khamenei's call for the elimination of Israel, which is incitement. So if Twitter has a policy against incitement of violence, it needs to be applied uniformly."

A Twitter spokesperson responded to the accusations of double standards in enforcing incitement prohibitions by telling VOA Persian that the platform has taken enforcement action against world leaders prior to Friday.

The spokesperson said Twitter focused its Friday actions on what he called the "harm presented by [Trump's personal] account specifically," and shared a link to Twitter's statement explaining why it believes Trump's last tweets have the potential to incite further violence following Wednesday's storming of the U.S. Capitol complex by some of his supporters.

Asked what Twitter is doing to demonstrate that it is treating world leaders consistently, the spokesperson said the company's policy of displaying a "government account" label for users affiliated with the five permanent member states of the U.N. Security Council will soon be expanded to include similar labeling for the officials of other nations. No further details were provided.

Twitter's action against the Khamenei account came hours before its banning of Trump.

The Khamenei account had posted a Friday tweet in which the Iranian supreme leader called coronavirus vaccines produced by the U.S., Britain and France "completely untrustworthy" and accused the Western powers of trying to "contaminate" other nations by offering to send them the vaccines.

The Khamenei tweet prompted Iranian activists such as VOA Persian TV show host Masih Alinejad to urge Twitter to suspend his account for spreading misinformation about the vaccines. Twitter removed the tweet from public view after several hours.