What was Trump's last tweet before he got banned?

Twitter permanently banned President Donald Trump's personal account, which had 88.7 million followers, Friday evening. But what was the last thing he tweeted?

"The 75,000,000 great American Patriots who voted for me, AMERICA FIRST, and MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN, will have a GIANT VOICE long into the future. They will not be disrespected or treated unfairly in any way, shape or form!!!" Trump tweeted Friday at 9:46 a.m.

He then tweeted at 10:44 a.m.: "To all of those who have asked, I will not be going to the Inauguration on January 20th."

The social media company said Trump's tweet about skipping the inauguration was "further confirmation that the election was not legitimate." And his message to supporters was "encouragement to those potentially considering violent acts."

"After close review of recent Tweets from the @realDonaldTrump account and the context around them — specifically how they are being received and interpreted on and off Twitter — we have permanently suspended the account due to the risk of further incitement of violence," the company said late Friday. "Our public interest framework exists to enable the public to hear from elected officials and world leaders directly. It is built on a principle that the people have a right to hold power to account in the open," the company said. "However, we made it clear going back years that these accounts are not above our rules entirely and cannot use Twitter to incite violence."

Throughout his presidency, social media companies have wrestled with how to moderate one of their most popular and powerful users.

Twitter, which locked Trump out of his account Wednesday for inflammatory posts after a pro-Trump mob stormed the Capitol, lifted the suspension Thursday. Trump posted a short video that day in which he pledged to support a peaceful transition of power.

Time and again, Trump tested the boundaries of what he could say, violating the company's rules against election misinformation, glorifying violence and falsehoods about COVID-19. But with Twitter's broader deference to world leaders, Trump has had latitude not afforded ordinary citizens.

After his account was suspended, Trump tweeted from the @POTUS Twitter account, accusing Twitter of silencing him and his supporters. But all four tweets were then deleted.