Article: Reflect, Experiment, Act: Jasjit Singh Kang on driving cultural change

"Culture pumps energy and passion, and is the reason why employees are attached to an organisation. On the other hand, technology serves as an enabler in extending employee delight and should become part of every CHRO's playbook," shares Jasjit Singh Kang, Vice President, Global HRO, BPaaS and Business Financial Services, iCORE, Wipro Limited.

What often separates the highest-performing organisations from the rest is culture. It plays a key role in setting the pace for technological adoption and management processes.In an interview with People Matters, Jasjit Singh Kang, Vice President, Global HRO, BPaaS and Business Financial Services, iCORE, Wipro Limited suggests HR leaders to Reflect, Experiment, Act: A Practical Approach to a Robust and Resilient Corporate Culture.

Jasjit leads global delivery for Wipro HR Services, Health Care and BFSI and is responsible for client relationship, operations and growth for these practices. Prior to this he was the managing director for Alight's operations in Asia Pacific. Jasjit was Senior Vice President and Business Unit Head for the Banking, Financial Services and Insurance (BFSI) vertical at WNS Global Services before joining Alight.

With over 28 years of experience, Jasjit has worked in the areas of operations management, technology-based innovation, business development and relationship management. He spent seven years in the banking industry with Citibank, Bank of America, ANZ Grindlays, before moving to the outsourcing industry. He also served as the Chairperson for the National Association of Software and Services.

From his own experience of leading people and culture amid crisis and the ongoing experimentation with the evolving work models, Jasjit shares two-pronged approach that will help drive a successful 'culture strategy' that is resilient to permanent change and ready for the future workforce and talks about the role technology can play in enabling HR and business leaders in building an adaptable culture.

Here are the excerpts from the interview: