Hillary Clinton, Chrissy Teigen, Megyn Kelly and more famous faces react to Trump's Twitter ban

Celebrities are reacting to the permanent suspension of President Donald Trump's Twitter account.

The company banned the @realdonaldtrump account for good on Friday, citing risk that the president would incite further violence. Twitter first locked Trump out of his account on Wednesday for inflammatory posts after a pro-Trump mob stormed the Capitol, but the company lifted the suspension the following day.

"After close review of recent Tweets from the @realDonaldTrump account and the context around them — specifically how they are being received and interpreted on and off Twitter — we have permanently suspended the account due to the risk of further incitement of violence," read a company statement late Friday.

Many stars cheered the decision in the wake of the company's announcement.

Chrissy Teigen simply wrote, "AAAAAAAAAAAAHAHAHAHAHAHHA..."

"What the (expletive) took you so long @jack?" asked Julia Louis-Dreyfus, addressing Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey.

Mark Ruffalo thanked Twitter, while Mark Hamill asked, "And how is YOUR day going?" along with a screenshot of the president's suspended account.

"The year is looking up again," wrote Jameela Jamil.

"The View" co-host Meghan McCain retweeted Twitter's announcement and added a warning: "He's gonna burn the White House to the ground."

Sacha Baron Cohen urged for further action from social media platforms, calling for the removal of Trump's YouTube account and tagging the CEOs of YouTube, Susan Wojcicki, and Google, Sundar Pichai, in a tweet on Monday.

"Virtually every social media company has removed Trump ... EXCEPT YouTube," the "Borat" star wrote. "Trump's YouTube channel is STILL showing videos of his election lies to MILLIONS of people!"

He added: "Retweet and tell @Google, @sundarpichai, @YouTube, @SusanWojcicki – do the right thing!"

'Assault on democracy': Lady Gaga, Meghan McCain, Cardi B and more react to Capitol riots

Others, however, took issue with the suspension.

"If you're on the right or not woke or want to raise Q's about the integrity of our electoral system, you're next," wrote Megyn Kelly.

User @ozzygutierrez1 replied to Kelly that "there is a difference between raising Q's about the integrity of our electoral system and actively undermining our institutions and advocating for violence like he did."

Kirstie Alley, a vocal Trump supporter, took to Twitter Friday to criticize Trump's permanent ban from the social media platform.

Hey @jack Why didn't you suspend these four people's accounts for inciting riots for months?" the actress questioned with an image of Kamala Harris, Nancy Pelosi and others.