Donald Trump returns to political stage amid GOP turmoil, social media bans, investigations

WASHINGTON – After more than three months behind closed doors, Donald Trump returned to the political stage Saturday by attacking Democrats and Republican critics while sweeping aside his own political problems, including social media bans and criminal investigations.

"It's a disgrace what's happening to our country," Trump told delegates to the North Carolina Republican Party state convention in a rambling 85-minute speech that touched on an array of political themes and grievances.

The ex-president re-emerged in public after months of political drama that included the decision by congressional allies to remove Trump critic Liz Cheney from her House GOP leadership position; stepped-up investigations by prosecutors in Georgia as well as New York; and the decisions by Facebook, Twitter and other social media platforms to extend their bans on Trump over his incendiary rhetoric.

Citing an ongoing investigation of his business practices in New York state, Trump accused prosecutors of trying to hurt him politically. He also said decisions by Facebook and other companies to keep him off social media are an "unfair" attempt to silence him and his supporters.

"They want to silence you," Trump said at one point during his speech in Greenville, North Carolina.

In his first televised speech since late February, Trump issued standard attacks on President Joe Biden and "radical Democrats," while repeating baseless claims of "voter fraud" in his 2020 election loss. Trump pledged to help Republicans win back Congress in the 2022 elections and suggested he might run again for president himself in 2024.

Republicans in North Carolina, which Trump carried in both the 2016 and 2020 elections, gave the ex-president a warm reception.

The question is how well his continuing protests of the 2020 election and his complaint-filled rhetoric will be seen by independents and Republicans who want to see the party move past the fractious ex-president.

Doug Heye, a Republican strategist and North Carolina native who has worked many political races in the state, said Trump's message plays well with true believers but may not appeal to other Republicans and voters in general.

"There's nothing new here," Heye said. "We've all heard this song before."

Surprise endorsement in 2022 Senate race

This was Trump's first televised speech since his Feb. 28 appearance at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Orlando, Florida. He used that occasion to threaten Republicans who criticized him over the Jan. 6 insurrection at the U.S. Capitol in which fervent Trump supporters tried to stop the counting of electoral votes showing that Biden won.

Trump wasn't as specific about Republican opponents in North Carolina, but did make disparaging comments in general about party members he considers disloyal.

Looking ahead to 2022, Trump made a surprise endorsement in a North Carolina race for a U.S. Senate seat. He said he would back U.S. Rep. Ted Budd over other Republicans seeking the party's nomination, an endorsement he made after his daughter-in-law, North Carolina native Lara Trump, confirmed to the crowd she would not run for the job herself.

The winner will replace one of Trump's frequent targets, Sen. Richard Burr, R-N.C., one of the seven Senate Republicans who voted to convict him for inciting the Jan. 6 riot. The full Senate acquitted Trump because prosecutors could not muster the two-thirds vote necessary for conviction.

The ex-president also used his North Carolina speech to defend his administration and attack its critics, including those in the media.