Graham calls for removal of protections from lawsuits after Twitter bans Trump

WASHINGTON (WCSC) - U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham said he's "more determined than ever" to strip away protections that make companies like Twitter immune to lawsuits.

Graham said that's because of Twitter's decision Friday afternoon to ban President Donald Trump from its platform.

In a series of tweets, Graham said Twitter may ban him but he would "willingly accept that fate."

"Your decision to permanently ban President Trump is a serious mistake," he said in a post. "The Ayatollah can tweet, but Trump can't. Says a lot about the people who run Twitter."

Graham said "Big Tech" are the only companies in the nation that have "absolute immunity from being sued for their actions, and it's only because Congress gave them that protection."

"It's now time for Congress to repeal Section 230 and put Big Tech on the same legal footing as every other company in America," he tweeted. "Legal accountability."

Twitter announced it had banned Trump Friday over two tweets, including one in which the president stated he would not attend Joe Biden's inauguration on Jan. 20.

The first tweet stated, "The 75,000,000 great American Patriots who voted for me, AMERICA FIRST, and MAKE AMERICA GREAT AGAIN, will have a GIANT VOICE long into the future. They will not be disrespected or treated unfairly in any way, shape or form!!!"

The second read, "To all of those who have asked, I will not be going to the Inauguration on January 20th."

The platform claimed the second tweet "may also serve as encouragement to those potentially considering violent acts that the Inauguration would be a 'safe' target, as he will not be attending. It also claimed Trump's use of the words "American Patriots" to describe some of his supporters "is also being interpreted as support for those committing violent acts at the U.S. Capitol."

Twitter also claimed plans for future armed protests "have already begun proliferating on and off-Twitter, including a proposed secondary attack on the U.S. Capitol and state capitol buildings" on Jan. 17.