Banning Trump from Social Media Makes Sense. But Beware the Downside

After a shocking day in American history when a violent mob, incited by President Trump, stormed and breached the Capitol Building, Facebook and Twitter temporarily banned the president from using their platforms. On Thursday morning, Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg went a step further, announcing Trump will be banned from Facebook's social media platforms until at least the end of his term on January 20.

The events were a direct reaction to words that Trump has repeated on social media, and that he said at a rally Wednesday before the attack on the Capitol—baseless claims about election fraud, the election being stolen from him, and his loss to Joe Biden in November.

"I think that banning [Trump's] account is the right call for social networks, but it might have unforeseen consequences," says Gianluca Stringhini, a Boston University College of Engineering assistant professor of electrical and computer engineering. He has been studying online disinformation, hate speech, and radicalization for years, and recently earned a National Science Foundation CAREER award to develop tools to rapidly identify coordinated cyber mobs.

In a recent paper, Stringhini and his collaborators studied what can unfold after radical online communities are banned from platforms. The researchers analyzed online posts made between 2017 and 2020 from r/The_Donald and r/Incels, two communities that were banned from Reddit and subsequently moved to stand-alone websites. They found overall that having them banned significantly decreased posting activity, reducing the number of posts, active users, and newcomers.

But r/The_Donald users that migrated to an independent website called thedonald.win showed signs of increased toxicity and radicalization. According to Stringhini, their findings paint a nuanced picture of the effect of platform moderation action and should help inform decisions that platforms, and government officials, make when it comes to dealing with false and hateful messages.

The Brink caught up with Stringhini to discuss Wednesday's events, and what impact a ban on Twitter and Facebook could have on Trump and his followers.

Q & A With Gianluca Stringhini The Brink: Can you explain how Wednesday's events at the Capitol were fueled by online communities? Do you see a clear connection? Stringhini: In the past five years, my collaborators and I observed a tendency for people to move to polarized online communities where they could discuss their political—and often extreme—views without fearing censorship. We found that relatively small communities like 4chan's Politically Incorrect Board, Reddit's r/The_Donald subreddit, and websites Gab, Voat, and Parler became fertile grounds for conspiracy theories, disinformation, and online hate. This nefarious content then makes its way to mainstream social networks, where millions of users see it. Oftentimes, this migration of content from fringe communities to mainstream ones is facilitated by popular figures. For example, President Trump's Twitter account has posted conspiratorial and hateful content that first appeared in one of these small communities multiple times.