150,000 Without Power as Winter Storm Dumps Snow Across Texas and the South

At a Glance Winter Storm Lana dumped more than a half a foot of snow in some places in Texas.

Slick roads led to numerous accidents and disabled vehicles in Louisiana.

Schools from Texas to Alabama canceled classes or delayed openings because of the storm.

A winter storm moving across the Deep South left more than 150,000 homes and businesses without electricity Monday morning.

More than 100,000 of those customers were in Texas, where Winter Storm Lana dumped half a foot or more of snow in some places. Another 47,600 outages were reported in Louisiana, according to poweroutage.us.

The roof of a home in Tyler, Texas, was damaged when the heavy, wet snow caused a large tree to topple over Sunday night, KLTV reported. Three people were in the home, but no one was injured. The falling tree also damaged two cars in the driveway.

Schools in Texas, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama canceled classes or delayed opening.

The Louisiana State Police said troopers were working numerous crashes and assisting motorists whose cars become disabled.

Interstates 49 and 220 near Shreveport, Louisiana, remained closed Monday morning because of the weather conditions, according to the state Transportation Department. Several other state highways also shut down because of icy conditions.

Louisiana officials closed state government offices in 29 western and northern parishes because of the storm, the Advocate reported.

In Mississippi, Hinds County delayed opening government offices until 10 a.m. Monday.

Road crews were out in Jackson, Mississippi, treating icy bridges early Monday. Warnings of icy road conditions were posted from Hinds County to the Tennessee and Alabama state lines.

The storm was affecting some roads in north and north-central Alabama, AL.com reported.

The National Weather Service said as of 6:30 a.m. CST, snow continued to fall across Pickens, Lamar, Marion, Winston, Fayette, and Walker counties.

The Weather Company's primary journalistic mission is to report on breaking weather news, the environment and the importance of science to our lives. This story does not necessarily represent the position of our parent company, IBM.