H-E-B scales back operations in winter storm-ravaged Texas

Texas grocer H-E-B is temporarily closing some stores and reducing hours of operation as the state grapples with ongoing power outages and water shortages from historically cold temperatures brought by Winter Storm Uri.

San Antonio-based H-E-B said Thursday that stores throughout its market — which stretches across northwestern, central, eastern and southern Texas — are opening later and closing earlier, including locations in greater Houston, the North East region, the Gulf Coast, Austin and Central Texas, and San Antonio and Hill Country, among other areas. Most stores are opening at 9 or 10 a.m. and closing around 5 to 7 p.m. Pharmacies will be open based on store hours.

H-E-B Store hours can be adjusted at any time, according to local conditions, H-E-B noted.

Stores shut as of midday Feb. 18 include four H-E-B locations in Austin and Central Texas, four H-E-Bs in the San Antonio and Hill Country areas (plus three pharmacies), and two Central Market stores in Southlake and Austin.

Millions of Texans have lacked electrical power for nearly four days as Uri caused record cold temperatures — down to the single digits, with wind chills below zero — that crashed the state's power grid and forced rolling blackouts. At the same time, the historically unheard-of temperatures for the region froze water pipes, cutting off much of the water supply and creating safety issues that compelled many people to boil water or snow for drinking and cooking water.

The disaster has paralyzed businesses and daily life in the state, with people searching for places to keep warm and seeking out dwindling supplies of food, bottled water and fuel.

"In the spirit of Texans helping Texans, H-E-B has prioritized conserving energy across our business to help preserve the energy grid in Texas. From our manufacturing facilities to our stores and administrative offices, we've drastically reduced all non-essential power, such as lighting and HVAC set points. Additionally, when facilities are closed, we've also turned off all non-essential power," H-E-B stated Thursday in a winter storm update.