Beto O'Rourke says storm crisis brought out best in Texans, quiet on his political plans

Beto O'Rourke's efforts helping storm-hit Texans have fueled calls for him to run against Gov. Greg Abbott or U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, but right now, he's finding fulfillment in volunteering.

Political analysts see Abbott and Cruz weakened, at least temporarily, from the fallout over power and water outages across much of the state and Cruz's short-lived trip to Mexico.

As for O'Rourke, he's busy working with other volunteers to get food, water and help to Texans who need it.

The one-time presidential candidate and former congressman from El Paso said, as of Monday, he and his team of volunteers have made about 900,000 wellness checks and delivered food and water to seniors and other Texans affected by the winter storms.

"I really enjoy being a volunteer and working with other volunteers," O'Rourke said.

On Monday morning, he was delivering a pallet of bottled water he secured in Waco to Rains County in North Texas. He and volunteers also were able to find a pallet of bottled water at a Walmart in his hometown of El Paso and get it delivered to Travis County.

The volunteers he is leading have helped out in cities including San Antonio, San Marcos, Houston and Austin.

How Beto O'Rourke's volunteer group has been helping in Texas

O'Rourke's volunteer organization, Powered by People, started as a way to register Texans to vote and making sure everyone in the state has a voice, he said. Now they have been helping with wellness checks as millions of Texans have been left without power and water. They also have worked in El Paso, signing up residents for the COVID-19 vaccine.

"We're trying to be as supportive as we possibly can be," he said.

O'Rourke said he has met with people whose pipes have burst from the freezing temperatures and others who have found their electric bills skyrocketing, leaving many Texans "angry and deeply frustrated."

And while he's keeping quiet on his own political future, O'Rourke said failures in state government to prepare for winter storms and what he called a disastrous rollout of the COVID-19 vaccine will push him to continue "to support those who want to get the job done."

Part of the frustration, he said, is that state officials were warned such a disaster could happen, particularly after cold weather caused power outages for about 3.2 million Texans in February 2011, but those warnings went unheeded.

'We should be doing far better'

A fact check from the Austin American-Statesman found that claim was accurate as there were years of warnings by energy experts. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the North American Electric Reliability Corp. issued a report after the 2011 outages, stating that after a cold front led to outages in 1989, the Public Utility Commission of Texas issued recommendations to improve winterization of generators.

But those recommendations were not mandatory, and eventually the same problems that befell generators in 1989 occurred again in 2011, and similar deficiencies led to outages once again in 2021.

O'Rourke said warnings about the effects of climate change on Texas also have gone largely unanswered by the state government, despite the state being hit by Hurricane Harvey, droughts and winter storms.

"I think it's clear to everyone that we should be doing far better," O'Rourke said.

Reform for ERCOT a priority, Gov. Greg Abbott says

Abbott has since made reform of the state electric grid operator, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, a priority in the Texas Legislature, which is now in session.