Texas might see another winter storm, says 2022 Farmers' Almanac

For over 200 years, the Farmers' Almanac has been a reference for farmers and gardeners, hobbyists and weather watchers.

Though much of its content has moved online (the publication's even on TikTok!), the Farmers' Almanac still releases a physical copy each year, just as it has since 1818. Before the 2022 edition is slated to hit shelves next week, the almanac released its upcoming winter storm predictions, sending a shiver down the spines of Texans across the state.

"The arctic outbreak in February 2021, which the Farmers' Almanac accurately predicted, brought frigid temperatures along with snow and ice to Texas and Oklahoma," says an August 4 release. "The Almanac is predicting similar cold and snowy conditions in late January, but fortunately, they shouldn't be as bad as last year."

Farmer's Almanac managing editor Sandi Duncan tells MySA that in 2022, our region is predicted to see a winter storm in late January.

"The good news is we don't think it'll be as bad as last year, but we do want people to be prepared," Duncan says.

The almanac is predicting a "frosty flip-flop winter" for the entire country, meaning that while precipitation levels will hit yearly averages, there will patterns of extreme cold and precipitation offset by more mild temps.

In our region, Duncan says Texas is likely to have a colder-than-normal winter with regular precipitation.

"We're summarizing this winter to be really 'chilled to the bone,'" she says. "Near normal precipitation, but then if you look on our website where we break it into actual months, we do have some very cold temperatures predicted."

The almanac uses a 200-year-old formula that combines astronomical and mathematical factors that Duncan notes has been "fine-tuned" over the centuries. The exact equation is known by only one anonymous employee who goes by the moniker Caleb Weatherbee.

"People consult us for vacations, weddings, we're often called a bride's best friend," Duncan adds.

Before San Antonians begin looking up real estate listings in Hawaii, it's important to note that weather prediction is just that — a prediction. Though the almanac did accurately predict Winter Storm Uri, it was off by a few days.

"We're not 100-percent accurate, I don't know any weather predictions that are," she says. "But you should be prepared."