2 dead in fire as heating safety warnings, emergency calls linked to winter storm continue

Two people were killed and others were injured in an East Austin fire Wednesday morning as authorities continue to warn people who remain without power amid gelid temperatures not to endanger themselves when trying to stay warm.

If investigators determine that the fire was caused by unconventional heating methods, the deaths could be the first in the Austin area to be tied to the unprecedented winter storm still affecting much of the region.

But while first responders have responded to a barrage of emergency calls related to the severe winter weather, no reports of fatalities have been directly linked to the freezing conditions so far.

Austin firefighters responded to a single-family home in the 2900 block of East 12th Street, west of Airport Boulevard, after receiving a call from a passerby at 10:48 a.m., said Austin fire Division Chief Stephen Truesdell. The caller reported seeing flames coming out of a window.

When firefighters arrived, at least one of the home's occupants had made it outside, Truesdell said. That person told firefighters that five people were still inside.

Two people were reported dead at the scene, and one person was taken to a hospital with critical, possibly life-threatening injuries. Three others were injured in the fire, medics said.

Listen to the Statesman's news podcast: The best local news, 8 minutes a day

The home is considered a total loss and investigators are still working to determine the fire's cause, Truesdell said.

"We are aware of reports that it might have been attributed to some sort of indoor warming fire, but we won't have a final official cause for a while," he said.

According to Austin Energy's outage map, the home was without power at the time of the fire. The area the home is in has been without power since around 2 a.m. Monday, according to the outage map.

As power outages are expected to continue through at least Wednesday night, Truesdell said Austinites should be careful about how they're seeking to warm up.

"Unfortunately, with the prolonged power outages, people are taking some pretty serious risks. We're trying to get the message out to remind people that there's a lot of dangers with starting fires indoors," he said.

Many fires in Austin and Travis County were reported this week as residents tried to heat their homes with propane, charcoal and other methods. Some fires were also started by fireplaces or faulty heating units.

Firefighters and medics on Wednesday urged Travis County residents to avoid trying to heat their homes with methods that could lead to poisonings and death.

Starting a fire by bringing a charcoal barbecue pit inside or using a gas grill inside could lead to a structure fire or carbon monoxide poisoning.

If people go to sleep with fires from items like a barbecue pit or gas grill, the danger is they won't wake up, officials have said.

"Once the fire starts, they don't have the wherewithal to wake up," Truesdell said.

Austin-Travis County EMS Captain Darren Noak on Wednesday said medics and firefighters have worked around the clock to respond to thousands of emergencies in Travis County since the severe winter weather began.

Dozens of those calls were from Austin-Travis County residents who were injured after slipping on icy pavement, while many others included such emergencies as carbon monoxide poisoning, vehicle crashes and fires.

Medics say a person died from a cardiac arrest Monday afternoon at the camp that Gov. Greg Abbott set up for people experiencing homelessness near U.S. 183 and Texas 71. It is unclear whether the death was related to the cold weather, they said.

Some rumors spread across social media Tuesday saying bodies were found outside in the snow after temperatures dipped below 10 degrees overnight. However, EMS and Austin fire officials said they have not responded to any such calls.

Noak said if bodies are located in homes or outside in the Austin area, first responders can't immediately link those deaths to cold weather. It's the job of local medical examiners to determine how a person died, which is a process that could take weeks.

Austin firefighters and medics said Wednesday there didn't appear to be more calls about fatalities than normal.

More than two dozen people across the country have died in the extreme weather this week, some while struggling to find warmth inside their homes.