South slammed by 2nd dangerous storm: Latest forecast

More ice and snow are headed to Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi and Tennessee.

The South, still digging out from snow and ice that brought the region to a standstill this week, is getting slammed by a second winter storm on Wednesday.

At least 30 people have died from this week's storms, according to The Associated Press.

This new storm brought up to 9 inches of snow to Amarillo, Texas, and up to 6 inches of snow near Oklahoma City.

Freezing rain struck Austin, Texas, and San Antonio where everything is covered in a layer of ice.

After blasting Oklahoma and Texas Wednesday morning, the storm is now moving through the Deep South, bringing more ice and snow to Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi and Tennessee.

Severe storms with damaging winds, hail and isolated tornadoes are possible Wednesday night across the Gulf Coast, from New Orleans to Mobile, Alabama, to Pensacola, Florida.

The weather has left millions in Texas without power.

Many Houstonians face frozen and bursting pipes in their homes, including Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner, he said Wednesday.

Officials have issued a boil water advisory for nearly 7 million people in Texas, according to the Texas Commission of Environment Quality. Cities affected include Houston, San Antonio and Arlington.

"This is no longer just an emergency. It's clear that it is a disaster," said Judge Lina Hidalgo, the elected leader of Harris County, which includes Houston. "Since we last stood here, 24 hours ago, we've not seen sustainable improvements just yet. In the power situation, we still have about a million homes and businesses, housing, millions of people, without power. What's also making matters worse, is we've seen a cascade of effects that have turned what is already a dire situation into something much worse."

Houston hospitals are also facing power outages and low water pressure.

"If you're a dialysis patient, the hospitals are not going to be able to provide you dialysis because they don't have the water pressure," Houston Chief Medical Officer Dr. David Persse said Wednesday. "We are working with the major dialysis providers in the community to get them water pressure back online. We're hoping to be able to do that shortly."

The death toll in Houston is currently five, according to the city, but Turner told ABC News by the time the weather passes, it could be more.