Gabby Petito's cause of death ruled strangulation; body was outside up to 4 weeks, Wyoming coroner says

It's been nearly one month since Gabby Petito's remains were found at a campground in the Bridger-Teton National Forest. The initial autopsy confirmed her identity and ruled her death a homicide, and Tuesday, the coroner said she died by strangulation.

Teton County, Wyoming Coroner Dr. Brent Blue revealed Petito's cause of death during a virtual press conference regarding the final autopsy report.

Dr. Blue said he was not able to reveal how he came to the conclusion that Gabby died by strangulation because Wyoming law prevented him from going into those details. He was not able to say if the method of strangulation was manual or if any item was involved.

In his statements, Dr. Blue was able to say Petito's remains were likely outside for three to four weeks before being found. He said an exact time of death will not be determined for this case.

"We are only tasked with cause and manner of death," the coroner said when asked by John Walsh if the cause of death could lead to an arrest in the case.

Gabby Petito's fiancé, Brian Laundrie, is the only person of interest in her case. He remains missing, despite several weeks of searching in Sarasota County.

"Nothing is obvious in a situation like this. Detailed analysis was used to determine manner and cause of death." — Dr. Brent Blue, Teton County Coroner

When asked about the length of time it took to release the conclusion of the autopsy, Dr. Blue said his office had to wait for test results before concluding the report, including a whole-body CAT scan, toxicology reports, and exams by a forensic pathologist and a forensic anthropologist.

Blue confirmed Gabby Petito was not pregnant at the time she was killed.

Petito family reaction

Gabby's parents have said they still believe Brian is alive during a recent interview where they detailed the day they learned of their daughter's death. Her father, Joe, said Brian "didn't tell us" that he returned home in North Port with her van, and without Gabby.

The parents began frantically texting and calling Brian's parents, even thinking early on that Brian was also missing, Joe said.

"One of the texts, I mean, I was going to call the police. You know, 'Just letting you know because we have no idea, no responses,'" Joe Petito said. "A normal parent, when you text someone that they're going to call the cops because you can't find your child, they would reply."

When asked if they believed "100%" that Brian Laundrie is in hiding, Joe Petito responded: "I do."

"Because he's a coward. Flat out. I could use some other words, but I can't use them on your show. Coward," he said. "Anyone that lived in that house is a coward, and they don't know how to stand up for their actions.

As of Friday, Petito's remains were still being held in Wyoming. Blue said the family was making arrangements for her return home to Long Island.

"Bringing her home is the family's top priority," the attorney for her parents, Richard Stafford, told Fox News.