Brian Laundrie still missing after arrest warrant issued in Gabby Petito case

NORTH PORT, Florida (WABC) -- Brian Laundrie remained missing Friday after an arrest warrant was issued Wednesday, related to Laundrie's activities following the death of Gabby Petito.

In Florida, searchers on spent a sixth day searching for Laundrie in the forbidding wilderness preserve near his parents' home.

The search at the Carlton Reserve park began after Laundrie told his parents he was going there, several days after returning alone Sept. 1 from his trip out west with Petito.

The U.S. District Court of Wyoming issued an arrest warrant and indictment on Thursday. The indictment charge is related to Laundrie's unauthorized use of a Capital One debit card and pin code with "intent to defraud" between Aug. 30 and Sept. 1 in Wyoming and elsewhere with a value of $1,000 or more.

Commander Joseph Fussell, leading the search in Florida, says the warrant for Laundrie doesn't really change anything for them and that they're still working as hard as they can to find him if he's still in the Carlton Reserve area.

"We're looking through wooded areas, through bodies of water. We're looking through swampy areas and we're deploying the resources to be able to do that," he said. "We are not wasting our time out here. We are doing our due diligence to find Brian in an area that intelligence has led us to believe he could possibly be in."

Meanwhile, back on Long Island, a funeral for Petito will be held Sunday from noon to 5 p.m. at Moloney's Holbrook Funeral Home.

The service open to the public, and the family has also given its blessing for the media to be there.

Petito, 22, was reported missing Sept. 11 by her parents after they she did not respond to calls and texts for several days while the couple visited parks in the West during their cross-country road trip.

Her body was discovered Sunday at Grand Teton National Park in Wyoming. A coroner ruled her death a homicide.

City of Moab, UT launches investigation into police handling of domestic incident

The City of Moab, Utah has launched an investigation into the police's handling of the Petito and Laundrie domestic incident that was caught on body cam on August 12.

In a statement from Moab City Police Chief Bret Edge, he says "an outside party filed a request with the Moab City Police Department asking for a formal investigation into the Aug. 12 incident in Moab involving Gabrielle Petito and Brian Laundrie."

He goes on to say, "At this time, the City of Moab is unaware of any breach of Police Department policy during this incident. However, the City will conduct a formal investigation and, based on the results, will take any next steps that may be appropriate."

Couple seen in explosive argument at Wyoming restaurant in Wyoming

A woman named Nina Celie Angelo took to her Instagram, saying she was there that day and witnessed the couple get into an explosive argument at the restaurant.

Angelo says Laundrie was screaming at the hostess and Petito was in tears and apologizing.