Instagram user says she saw Petito and Laundrie in Wyoming restaurant

SALT LAKE CITY — A woman on Instagram has posted information about a couple at a Wyoming restaurant that she says were Gabby Petito and Brian Laundrie.

On her Instagram story, a woman using the screen name @NinaCelie discussed an encounter she and her boyfriend had at the Merry Piglett's Mexican Grill in Jackson Hole, Wyo., on Aug. 27, 2021.

"Matt and I just realized ... that we saw, not only saw but saw a blowout of a situation between Gabby Petito and Brian Laundrie in Wyoming when we were there," her Instagram story begins.

She claims that her boyfriend, referred to in the Instagram story as Matt, has an "insane photographic memory." One morning recently he remembered the fight at the restaurant on Aug. 27 and that he believed the couple involved were Laundrie and Petito.

A timeline compiled by ABC News shows that the last time Petito spoke with her mother was on Aug. 25.

Continuing on her Instagram story, Celie said that the restaurant kicked the arguing couple out.

"They were fighting with the hostess. She was hysterically crying," Celie said. "And he walked back in the restaurant and he was fighting with the hostess."

"He walked back in like, four times to talk to the manager and tell the hostess off," Celie said.

A sudden recollection

Celie said that she and her boyfriend stayed in Wyoming for several more days participating in a wedding, and that she did not think of the fighting couple again. She said it was her boyfriend, Matt, that couldn't stop thinking about where he had seen Laundrie before.

She said that on Wednesday morning, the boyfriend sat up and screamed that he had remembered where he'd seen Laundrie: in that restaurant in Wyoming on the evening of Aug. 27.

"He was violently talking to the hostess," Celie continued. "You could tell he was angry."

"Whatever it was, he was relentless. He wouldn't drop it."

FBI still seeking information

Thus far, no one can verify whether Celie's sighting was indeed of Petito and Laundrie or someone else. The FBI asked anyone who was in the area between Aug. 27 and Aug. 30, 2021, to contact them, uploading any potential video or photographic evidence to this site.

Laundrie, who traveled across the country with Petito starting in June, returned to his home on Sept. 1 in Petito's white van. Petito was not with him.

Her family reported Petito missing on Sept. 11. His family reported Laundrie missing on Sept. 17.