Where to Watch 'The Murder of Gabby Petito' Documentary

The disappearance of 22-year-old Gabby Petito gripped the world in August 2021, after she went missing during a U.S. road trip with her fiancée, Brian Laundrie.

Sadly, Gabby Petito's body was found on September 21, in Bridger–Teton National Forest in Wyoming. Her cause of death was ruled as a homicide, caused by manual strangulation.

The upcoming documentary, Murder of Gabby Petito: Truth, Lies and Social Media, features Gabby Petito's parents in their first documentary interview, where they speak candidly of their daughter, and the tragic events which happened to her.

The documentary also looks at the role social media played in helping bring Petito's story to a worldwide audience and how internet sleuths played a crucial role in helping solve Petito's disappearance.

Where to Watch The Murder of Gabby Petito Documentary

The Murder of Gabby Petito: Truth, Lies and Social Media premieres in the U .S. on Friday, December 17.

The documentary film is available to watch exclusively via Peacock. Unfortunately, at the moment, The Murder of Gabby Petito: Truth, Lies, and Social Media is not available to stream via Netflix, Hulu, and HBO Max.

What Is The Murder of Gabby Petito: Truth, Lies and Social Media about?

The Murder of Gabby Petito: Truth, Lies, and Social Media takes an intimate look at the tragic true story of 22-year-old Gabby Petito.

Featuring her parent's and step-parents' first-ever documentary interview, Petito's family recalls Petito's early years and the moments leading up to her sudden disappearance.

In emotional interviews, Petito's family also recall the moment they found out her body had been found, and reflect on the power of social media in helping to investigate the case.

The Murder of Gabby Petito: Truth, Lies and Social Media also delves into the work done by internet sleuths online to help find her, including speaking to The Bethune family who realized they had filmed Gabby and Brian's van parked near Jenny Lake in Grand Teton National Park purely by coincidence on their dashcam which they later uploaded to their YouTube page.

Read more Inside Susan and Christopher Edwards' Fake Friendship With Gerard Depardieu Inside Susan and Christopher Edwards' Fake Friendship With Gerard Depardieu