Timeline of Gabby Petito's Utah travels

SALT LAKE CITY — FOX 13 pieced together a timeline of Gabby Petito and Brian Laundrie's trip through Utah, mostly based on their instagram posts.

We used pictures from Gabby's Instagram page whenever possible to show what she was wearing, in the event someone remembers seeing her.

Utah law enforcement experts believe finding Gabby Petito will be 'extremely difficult' without boyfriend's help

Gabby's pictures place them in Utah on July 16 at Zion National Park.

They were at Zion until at least July 21 when they moved to Bryce Canyon.

Five days later on July 26 they were in Mystic Hot Springs.

Gabby Petito also used an app called AllTrails to document some of her hiking and driving activity in states across the country.

A number of the hikes she documented on AllTrails line up with the content she posted on Instagram.

Petito's last recorded hike was in Mystic Hot Springs on July 24; two days later, she posted photos from Mystic Hot Springs to her Instagram.

Then, on July 29 it was on to Canyonlands.

On August 12, they were in Arches National Park. Late that afternoon was when they had their encounter with police in Moab.

They were still in Moab on August 13 according to a post on Brian's Instagram page.

Moab police body cam video shows Petito upset during fight with boyfriend before she disappeared

Then the trail goes cold for a few days.

Gabby Petitio's family release emotional open letter to Laundrie's parents begging for information

Gabby posted a picture on August 19, but it doesn't indicate where they were other than in a park.

On August 24, they were at the Fairfield Inn and Suites near the Salt Lake City airport.

The next day, August 25, Gabby posted this photo from Ogden, on the same day they reportedly drove to Grand Teton National Park in Wyoming.

Neither Gabby nor Brian has posted anything on Instagram since August 25.

Thousands of other social media users are commenting on the posts, urging Brian to share where she is.

If you think you may have seen Gabrielle Petito you're urged to call 1-800-CALL-FBI