Gabby Petito disappearance: Boyfriend 'refusing to tell Gabby's family where he last saw her'

Legal representatives for Brian Laundrie, the boyfriend of a North Port woman who went missing while the couple was in the middle of a cross-country trip, said he and his family are "remaining in the background" while searches get underway near the Grand Teton National Park in Wyoming.

Gabrielle "Gabby" Petito and Laundrie – who police have not identified in relation to the case, but legal representatives for his family identified Tuesday afternoon – were driving a converted camper van from Florida to New York and then to national parks out west when Gabrielle went missing.

North Port police joined the investigation, assisting agencies across multiple states to find out what happened to her now that her boyfriend and the van were located Saturday at his North Port family home.

North Port police confirmed Tuesday morning that Gabby's boyfriend was not cooperating with the investigation and did not identify him by name. FOX 13 News has confirmed his identity through a press release from Steven P. Bertolino, P.C., of Bertolino Law in Long Island, New York.

The statement says the Laundrie family hopes the search for Gabby is "successful."

"This is understandably an extremely difficult time for both the Petito family and the Laundrie family. It is our understanding that a search has been organized for Miss Petito in or near Grand Teton National Park in Wyoming. On behalf of the Laundrie family it is our hope that the search for Miss Petito is successful and that Miss Petito is re-united with her family. On the advice of counsel the Laundrie family is remaining in the background at this juncture and will have no further comment."

Petito's family responded, calling for Laundrie to tell them where he last saw Gabby.

"The Schmidt and Petito family are going through the worst moments of their lives. Their beautiful twenty-two year old daughter is missing and the one person that can help find Gabby refuses to help," the statement says, in part.

"Brian [Laundrie] is refusing to tell Gabby's family where he last saw her. Brian is also refusing to explain why he left Gabby all alone and drove her van to Florida. These are critical questions that require immediate answers.

"The Schmidt and Petito family beg the Laundrie family to not 'remain in the background' but to help find who Brian referred to as the love of his life. How does Brian stay in the background when he is the one person that knows where Gabby is located?

"The Schmidt and Petito family implore Brian to come forward and at least tell us if we are looking in the right area."

Meanwhile, investigators in Sarasota County have been searching the van for clues into Gabrielle's disappearance, but there are no obvious signs of foul play inside.

"The concern is already there. There is enough information there that we are concerned for her health and well-being," said Josh Taylor, with the North Port Police Department. "The investigation will evolve when we have more details and evidence. I'm confident that will happen."