Gabby Petito's mom shares agony after streaming site Hulu recommends documentary about her daughter's death to her

THROWN IN HER FACE Gabby Petito's mom shares agony after streaming site Hulu recommends documentary about her daughter's death to her

GABBY Petito's grieving mom claimed that the streaming site Hulu recommended a documentary about her daughter's death to her.

The Youtuber, 22, was found dead in a Wyoming campground on September 19 – just days after she was reported missing by her parents.

Nichole Schmidt tweeted Sunday: "When you turn on Hulu and your daughter's story is the recommended show to watch.

"It's still shocking, feels like I'm outside looking in, this cannot be our life. We must keep going."

She included the Twitter handles of Gabby's dad Joe Petito, her stepfather Jim Schmidt, and her stepmom Tara Petito in the post.

Social media users said they're keeping Gabby's family in their prayers.

One said: "Love to you mama. You're amazing and strong."

Another posted: "I'm so sorry you are all having to go through this. Your daughter touched lives across the world and is changing them daily."

A third said: "I hear you, Niki, I will never forget about your daughter. I prayed for her and your family last night. Let's keep spreading her positively worldwide."

Coroners in Wyoming revealed that Gabby died from strangulation, but cops haven't named her killer.

Teton County coroner Dr. Brent Blue said Gabby's predicted death was three to four weeks before her remains were found.

Gabby had been visiting idyllic canyon ranges and touring national parks across America's midwest with her fiancé Brian Laundrie after leaving New York at the start of July.

She mysteriously vanished after losing contact with her family in August.

It's reported that she last spoke to her parents after she and Laundrie reached Grand Teton National Park in Wyoming.

Laundrie was identified as a person of interest in Gabby's disappearance and death. He was never named a suspect.

Paul Belli, of the International Homicide Investigations Association, told The Sun that potential notes and drawings could be useful to investigators in their probe.

A notebook was found last month as cops unearthed Laundrie's "partial remains" while combing the Carlton Reserve in Sarasota, Florida.

Criminologist Casey Jordan said a notebook "pointed to the possibility" of a potential suicide note, 7News reports.

Jordan told CNN: "That really raises the question if indeed this is Brian Laundrie and if he died by his own hand, did he take the time out to write out a note of explanation, maybe even regret?

'COVER UP?'