Authorities searching for missing 22-year-old woman last seen in SLC

SALT LAKE CITY — Officials are looking for a missing 22-year-old woman who was last seen traveling through Utah and Wyoming with her boyfriend.

Nichole Schmidt said her daughter, 22-year-old Gabby Petito, left Blue Point, New York, on a cross-country trip with her boyfriend of two years on July 2.

"She wanted to cross the country in the camper van and live the van life and live free. This was her dream," Schmidt said.

Petito's parents said the couple documented every step of the way, spending time in Colorado and southern Utah.

"If you look at her Instagram page, you can actually find a lot of evidence of where they were these past few months," said Schmidt.

Schmidt pointed to her daughter's Instagram account with posts at Arches National Park, Canyonlands National Park, and Mystic Hot Springs in Monroe

But toward the end of August, the posts started slowing down.

Petito's father, who lives in Florida, said the couple was in Salt Lake City on Aug. 21. He knows because he placed an Uber Eats order for them.

"There was a power outage. She said she didn't have WiFi, so I ordered her some food," Joseph Petito said. "I know it was in Salt Lake City. It was the last time I spoke to her."

He said the couple didn't have friends in Salt Lake City but wanted to spend time in the area.

Gabby Petito's parents said the couple left Salt Lake City for Grand Teton National Park around Aug. 24, where they believe the couple spent no more than two days.

This was also around the last time Petito spoke with her mother over FaceTime.

"She seemed OK to me at the time, other than I don't know where the relationship was going with the boyfriend," said Schmidt of the couple possibly going through a rough patch.

Then the details get hazy as Petito's parents say they're not sure if she made it to her next destination.

"She was making her way up to Yellowstone," Schmidt said explaining that after Aug. 24 her communication with Petito grew sporadic and happened only via text.

"The last text I got from her was on Aug. 30. I don't know if that was her texting me or not," Schmidt said.

Then Petito stopped responding all together. Schmidt said she initially figured the couple had lost internet reception but late last week, her mother knew something was off.

Petito's parents said they started reaching out to their local law enforcement agencies in Florida and New York. On Saturday evening, Schmidt said a detective at the Suffolk County Police Department agreed to file a case.

In an email, the Suffolk County Police Department confirmed the van was located but did not specify where. In a press release, the van was described as a white 2012 Ford Transit van with Florida license plate QFTG03.

They also declined to provide information on Petito's boyfriend or his current whereabouts.

A department spokesperson also said the department does not comment on suspects or persons of interest adding, "We are not commenting on who has been spoken to in relation to this investigation."

Anyone with information is asked to call Suffolk County Crime Stoppers at 1-800-220-TIPS, or they can submit an online tip through P3tips.com.

Petito was described as approximately 5-foot-5, weighing 110 pounds. She has blonde hair, blue eyes and several tattoos, including one on her finger and one on her forearm that reads, "let it be."