Did the Internet Actually Help Find Gabby Petito?

A Wyoming coroner has ruled the A Wyoming coroner has ruled the death of van life influencer Gabby Petito a homicide . Police in Florida are still searching for her missing fiancé in a 25,000-acre nature preserve. Some on the internet who followed the case are celebrating as if they helped find Petito's body and render justice.

"We brought Gabby home," Haley Toumaian, one of the biggest accounts making content about the case, "We brought Gabby home," Haley Toumaian, one of the biggest accounts making content about the case, said on TikTok after police found the body. "We need justice for her."

But it's unclear what, if anything, the effect the But it's unclear what, if anything, the effect the social media investigation around Petito's disappearance and murder was. Millions of people tuned into accounts like Toumaian's to pour over the details of the case and share information. People with relevant information, such as Miranda Baker who claimed she gave Petito's fiance a ride near where her body was found, stressed they had also shared information with police.

Petito's murder and the wide-scale open-source investigations have sparked a conversation about what sorts of crimes capture public attention with the media and on social media. One obvious explanation is that Petito Petito's murder and the wide-scale open-source investigations have sparked a conversation about what sorts of crimes capture public attention with the media and on social media. One obvious explanation is that Petito was a conventionally attractive white woman participating in vanlife (an aspirational lifestyle for some, an eye-roll-worthy lifestyle for others) who was aspiring to be a social media influencer. But Petito's case has also sparked a series of conspiracy theories and frenzies that intertwine with other parts of the culture wars.

"People are participating for different reasons," Isaac West, an associate professor at Vanderbilt University and the author of The Serial Effect: True Crime and Contemporary American Culture, told Motherboard. "It allows us to do two things: to think about motives and then to be part of the solution. So if there's a mystery to solve and to think about how and why this particular act of violence occurred. That allows people to engage in both of these questions." "People are participating for different reasons," Isaac West, an associate professor at Vanderbilt University and the author of The Serial Effect: True Crime and Contemporary American Culture, told Motherboard. "It allows us to do two things: to think about motives and then to be part of the solution. So if there's a mystery to solve and to think about how and why this particular act of violence occurred. That allows people to engage in both of these questions."