Lady Gaga Wore Schiaparelli Couture for Biden Inauguration — Lady Gaga Inauguration Outfit

Update: In a recent video for British Vogue, Lady Gaga surveyed 20 of the most iconic looks she has worn throughout her career. Included in the catalogue—along with notable moments like her 2010 "meat dress" and her first Academy Award win in 2019 in Brandon Maxwell and Tiffany's yellow diamond—is the custom Schiaparelli Haute Couture design she wore to perform at President Joe Biden's inauguration this past January. "This is one of my favorite things I've ever worn," Gaga says, before revealing that the dress was actually bulletproof.

And choosing Schiaparelli, an Italian designer, was a deeply personal choice for the multihyphenate star: "When I saw that golden dove, I just knew that this was the right piece, and I knew, Schiaparelli being an Italian fashion house, it was something that I really, really wanted to do for my heritage as an Italian-American woman that would be singing for President 45 to be leaving and to invite President 46 into office," she says in the video. Below, our original story from January 2021 on Gaga's custom Schiaparelli creation.

Lady Gaga is never one to shy away from a major fashion moment. Yesterday, when she arrived at the Capitol for the inauguration dress rehearsal, she wore a simple and elegant white cape (via Givenchy by Matthew Williams) with a pretty plait crowning her head. Many fans were quick to note the Princess Leia vibes (see: Carrie Fisher in 1977's Star Wars: Episode IV).

This morning, as she stepped out onto the platform to sing the national anthem for the inauguration ceremony of 46th President Joe Biden, Gaga's look was decidedly more theatrical. The star opted for a custom Schiaparelli haute couture design—a fitted navy cashmere jacket that gave way to a voluminous washed red silk faille skirt. Her hair was in the same braid as the day before, but with a red flower tucked into the back. The crowning glory of the outfit, though, was undoubtedly the giant gilded brooch in the shape of a dove, which, as we all know, is a symbol of peace.