CNN's Chris Cuomo reveals he urged brother Andrew to resign: 'I'm not an advisor, I'm a brother'

Chris Cuomo is breaking his silence on his older brother, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo resigning from office amid a sexual harassment scandal.

The CNN anchor, 51, returned from vacation to his show "Cuomo Primetime" on Monday to address the scandal and viewers who may be "feeling a lot of hurt and a lot of pain right now."

"My hope is that ultimately everyone involved can get to a better place, that some higher good will be served in all of this," Cuomo said, after dedicating the majority of his hour-long program to President Joe Biden's withdrawal from Afghanistan.

Though the anchor said he refrained from covering the scandal on CNN due to his conflict of interest, he acknowledged he gave his brother advice on the sexual harassment allegations against him and revealed he urged the governor to resign.

"I'm not an adviser. I'm a brother," he said. "I was there to listen and offer my take. And my advice to my brother was simple and consistent: Own what you did. Tell people what you can do to be better. Be contrite. And finally, accept that it doesn't matter what you intended. What matters is how your actions and words were perceived."

Cuomo's brother also faces a pending investigation by federal prosecutors in Brooklyn, who are looking into his administration's handling of COVID-19 in nursing homes and its withholding of certain death data at the height of the pandemic last year.

Attorney General Letitia James' office is also looking into whether the governor illegally used state resources to pen his book on the COVID-19 crisis, for which he is due to be paid $5.1 million.

Cuomo said Monday he "never misled anyone" on his show and he "never influenced or attempted to control CNN's coverage" of his family. He added that CNN's rules preventing him from reporting on his brother remain intact.

"It was a unique situation being a brother to a politician in a scandal and being part of the media. I tried to do the right thing, and I just want you all to know that," he continued. "This will be my final word on it, and I appreciate you giving me the opportunity to do so."

Last week's scathing report by the New York state attorney general's office on Andrew Cuomo's behavior also involved Chris, who was interviewed as part of the investigation and testified that he urged his brother to show remorse in conference calls in which he participated.

In May, the younger Cuomo acknowledged on air that he had talked to his brother and members of his staff in an advisory capacity as the governor's scandal was blowing up. This was not supposed to happen, per his CNN bosses' orders, and he later apologized for it.

Here's what's next for Governor Cuomo after his resignation With numerous investigations and being faced with possible criminal charges, here's what the future holds for Gov. Cuomo following his resignation. Just the FAQs, USA TODAY