Chris Cuomo, CNN face ethical questions following Governor Andrew Cuomo's political demise

Chris Cuomo is expected to be back on the air at CNN this week. Questions still swirl around him following the resignation of his older brother, New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, and the role the cable network star played in advising the governor through his political crisis and how the network will handle one of the biggest stories of the year going forward.

Cuomo will likely keep his job, say Northeastern journalism faculty experts Dan Kennedy and Mike Beaudet, even as media watchdog groups and others have called for him to step down or be fired for his involvement with the matter. They say network management and Chris Cuomo himself share blame for a "messy situation" that blurred personal and professional lines between the anchor and his embattled sibling.

CNN hasn't said anything publicly about Cuomo's status since more information came to light last week about his role in helping Gov. Cuomo respond to harassment charges. The Cuomo Prime Time host was expected to be in his usual 9 p.m. EDT slot on Monday between Anderson Cooper 360 at 8 p.m. EDT and Don Lemon Tonight airing at 10 p.m. EDT.

Cuomo's job with CNN "appears to be safe at the moment," says Beaudet. "But," he cautions, "this is an evolving situation."

Kennedy adds that disciplinary action is not likely to materialize unless Cuomo's boss, CNN President Jeff Zucker, is punished as well, "and that's not going to happen."

Chris Cuomo was interviewed as part of the New York attorney general's investigation and testified that he encouraged his brother to show remorse, and had a hand in writing public statements―actions that raised questions about journalistic boundaries.

"CNN needs to commission a report of its own to determine just how its star anchor fit into this sexual harassment pushback effort,'" wrote Washington Post media critic Erik Wemple.

Chris Cuomo acknowledged that it was a mistake and has apologized on air. He is also facing heat for interviews with the governor in early 2020 when Andrew Cuomo was receiving plaudits for his pandemic press briefings. Gov. Cuomo joked during one interview with his younger brother that he was their mother's favorite son, and chided Chris as the family "meatball."

The back-and-forth was a ratings hit with viewers, but the Northeastern professors say the interviews were never a good idea.

"The fault lies entirely with CNN management that saw it as good for ratings," says Kennedy, a media commentator. He described the on-air interactions between the Cuomos as "mildly inappropriate but entertaining."