Chris Cuomo appears carefree and flashes the peace sign as he gets his COVID vaccine

Chris Cuomo appeared carefree as he got his COVID-19 vaccine following reports his governor brother arranged for him and their family to get early access to virus test.

The CNN host flashed the peace sign when he was pictured in the Hamptons on Tuesday before waiting in line with everyone else to get inoculated.

He apparently did not get any preferential treatment this time round in getting the shot the Suffolk County clinic.

Cuomo was pictured wearing a light blue shirt, dark shots, a baseball cap, and a mask as he drove to get his shot on Eastern Long Island.

He drove to and from the vaccine site alone in his black car.

Last week, Chris came under fire after it was reported that his powerful brother Andrew arranged for him and his relatives to get tested for COVID-19 early in the pandemic - a time when access to the tests were scarce.

The tests were then rushed to a state lab with an escort from New York State troopers and the results were given within an hour - even as New Yorkers waited days to schedule a test and even longer to know if they were infected.

Chris Cuomo appeared carefree as he got his COVID-19 vaccine following reports his governor brother arranged for him and their family to get early access to virus test

The CNN host flashed the peace sign when he was pictured in the Hamptons on Tuesday before waiting in line with everyone else to get inoculated

Both Cuomo and CNN were blasted by critics who charge that journalistic ethics required them to disclose that fact to viewers - many of whom were unable to get tested for COVID-19.

The latest revelations come on top of myriad scandals surrounding the governor, including nine women who have now come forward with allegations of sexual harassment and assault against him.

The US Attorney's Office and the FBI are also investigating his office for undercounting COVID-19 deaths in nursing homes.

Cuomo is facing an impeachment probe by New York's Joint Commission on Public Ethics, as well as an FBI investigation into the scandals.

He apparently did not get any preferential treatment this time round in getting the shot the Suffolk County clinic

Cuomo was pictured wearing a light blue shirt, dark shots, a baseball cap, and a mask as he rushed to get his shot on Eastern Long Island. He drove to and from the vaccine site alone

An aide to New York's health commissioner reportedly administered a COVID-19 test to Chris Cuomo at his Long Island home last March and rushed it to a state laboratory for processing, according to published reports in the Albany Times-Union and The New York Times.

During one of their on-air conversations last year, Andrew Cuomo noted that he was glad their 89-year-old mother, Matilda, had not moved in with his brother's family.

Members of Cuomo's family including his brother; his mother; and at least one of his three sisters were tested by top health department officials, some of them several times, according to the Times Union of Albany.

Dr. George Yancopoulos, president of pharmaceutical company Regeneron, also secured special access to the coronavirus testing for both himself and his family.

The March testing took place just weeks before Cuomo would announce on April 1 that Regeneron would create 500,000 kits for testing samples and provide them to New York for free, the New York Times reports.