'The Daily Show' mocks Chris Cuomo as an 'epic news bro' in clip about his life, career

"The Daily Show with Trevor Noah" is taking a satirical look at the life and career of CNN anchor Chris Cuomo.

The nearly 12-minute "Dailyshow-ography" YouTube clip posted Thursday (as the Comedy Central show takes a summer break) depicts Cuomo as an "epic news bro." It traces his educational background, mocks his Yale education as the "school of hard knocks," his news career and on-air banter, and his unwavering support of his brother, disgraced former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo.

"Chris could've used his family name to go into politics," the narrator says, referring to his father Mario Cuomo, New York's governor from 1983 to 1994. "But that wasn't his style. Instead, he used his family name to go into TV journalism."

After talking about Cuomo's on-air catchphrase "let's get after it" and his public battle with COVID-19 early in the pandemic, the biography delves into his relationship with his brother, which has been scrutinized, especially after Andrew Cuomo was embroiled in a sexual harassment scandal.

"Chris would never turn on his big brother, which became very clear when something happened that caused literally everyone else in the country to turn on his big brother," the narrator says.

Andrew Cuomo resigned from his office as Governor Aug. 10 after sexual harassment allegations engulfed his administration and derailed his political future. Chris Cuomo was on vacation at the time and didn't address his brother's decision until the following week.

Cuomo breaks silence:What does anchor's future hold?

Chris Cuomo said he refrained from covering the scandal on CNN due to his conflict of interest, but he acknowledged he gave his brother advice on the sexual harassment allegations against him and revealed he urged the governor to resign.

"I'm not an adviser. I'm a brother," he said. "I was there to listen and offer my take. And my advice to my brother was simple and consistent: Own what you did. Tell people what you can do to be better. Be contrite. And finally, accept that it doesn't matter what you intended. What matters is how your actions and words were perceived."