Biden inauguration: 20,000 National Guard troops expected to be in Washington

Washington CNN — More than 20,000 National Guard members could be in the nation's capital to help secure President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration, as sources tell CNN that officials are considering raising the terrorism threat level and are worried about explosives being used in the capital city.

The US Secret Service on Wednesday officially took charge of security for Biden's inauguration as authorities warned of new threats across the country after last week's violence at the Capitol.

Multiple defense officials have told CNN that the National Guard and law enforcement expect improvised explosive devices (IEDs), like pipe bombs and Molotov cocktails, to be a threat in the unrest surrounding the inauguration in Washington. The planning is to assume perpetrators will come with high "aggression," one senior defense official said.

"Their intentions are very serious," the official added.

FBI Director Chris Wray and other federal officials said Wednesday on a call with nationwide law enforcement leaders they remain concerned about the prospect of extremists appearing at planned rallies and conducting violence, a source said.

The physical security perimeter around the Capitol and other key buildings also continues to expand. Road blocks and steel barriers are extending many blocks from the Capitol. Road blocks are also being set up further out from the White House and the National Naval Observatory, where the vice president lives.

The Secret Service is leading the overall security effort working in coordination with federal law enforcement agencies and the Pentagon. Multiple senior defense officials told CNN that there is a major interagency "requirements" meeting Wednesday to discuss in depth security requirements.

Asked if he's ever seen this much law enforcement reinforcement coming to the District, the newly installed Washington, DC, Police Chief Robert Contee, who is a veteran of the Metropolitan Police Department and a lifelong DC resident, answered, "not at this level, no."

Massive National Guard presence in Washington

Multiple defense officials tell CNN that the total request for National Guard is close to 30,000 guardsmen to support US Capitol Police, Park Police and Washington Metropolitan Police Department but officials believe that the actual number needed is closer to 20,000. The final numbers will be provided by the Secret Service.

The officials added that there is no concern that there will be any shortage of Guard forces to meet requirements from the 50 states and the District of Columbia.