Chris Cuomo's former CNN producer John Griffin tried to pay off sex crimes witness: feds

Fired CNN producer John Griffin tried to "deceive, delete, and spend his way out of being held accountable" for his alleged sex crimes against a minor, new court documents allege.

Griffin, 44, was indicted this month by a federal grand jury in Vermont for attempting to "induce minors to engage in unlawful sexual activity," and allegedly bragged about luring girls as young as 7 to his home for "sexual subservience" training.

The former producer who boasted about working "shoulder to shoulder" with Chris Cuomo was fired by CNN following his arrest and is facing up to 10 years in prison for each of the three counts he is facing in charges involving a 9-year-old girl.

In a motion to keep him in jail until his trial, US Attorney Nikolas P. Kerest said Griffin's detention is crucial to community safety. He is "a wealthy man who is desperate to avoid facing justice" with a history of mental illness, substance abuse and alleged sexual assault of minor, Kerest said, who cited Jeffrey Epstein court docs in the motion.

The motion, filed Monday, offers more details about Griffin's alleged actions, including that he offered a woman $30,000 in January 2020 for a mother-and-daughter getaway. In March 2020, he offered another woman $1,200 for sex, saying he would up the payment to $5,000 "if the kids are in the room," the feds said.

When chatting with someone online who admitted to sexually assaulting a baby, Griffin reassured the assailant, saying, "You need to promise me that you will always understand what you're doing is right, OK?" Chats show him calling young girls and babies explicit names like "little slut," "little whore," and "little b—h."

He also sent $4,000 via Venmo to a family member of the 9-year-old he is accused of assaulting as part of an "apparent pay-off," according to the feds.

3 Griffin attempted to lure at least four girls, ages 16, 14, 13 and 9, to his Vermont ski house, prosecutors said. John Griffin/Twitter

Prosecutors said in their complaint that Griffin, of Stamford, Connecticut, attempted to lure at least four girls, ages 16, 14, 13 and 9, to his Vermont ski house for "training sessions" on such things as "spanking" and "c–k worship," reportedly saying a "woman is a woman regardless of her age."