Andrew Cuomo looms in the race to replace him: 'There's power in that fear'

CNN — More than three months after he resigned in disgrace, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo exists in political limbo – not completely written off as a spent force, but sidelined as the campaign to replace him heats up.

Cuomo, who for a decade ran the Empire State and its Democratic Party apparatus, left his perch in August rather than face impeachment and removal from office following an inquiry by the state attorney general's office that found he sexually harassed multiple women and oversaw a toxic workplace.

His departure capped a stunning fall from the national political stardom he achieved during the nightmarish first wave of the coronavirus pandemic in spring 2020. Cuomo's handling of the crisis, lauded then, has since come under withering scrutiny.

On Monday, the state assembly released a report of its own – broader in scope than the attorney general's – which concluded there was "overwhelming evidence that the former Governor engaged in sexual harassment" and that Cuomo and his senior staff were "not fully transparent regarding the number of nursing home residents who died as a result of Covid-19." The misleading data, the investigators said, was then used by Cuomo to burnish his image in a now infamous book, which was written and promoted with the help of government staffers, that initially stood to make him about $5 million.

Cuomo has denied the multiple allegations of sexual misconduct, said he did not intentionally misstate the nursing home death count and insisted the book deal and publication process followed ethical norms.

But 18 months on from Democrats semi-seriously chewing over his presidential prospects, Cuomo is now the subject of a criminal complaint in connection to one of the harassment allegations and grand plans for an easy election to a fourth term in office – one more than his father, the late former Gov. Mario Cuomo – have been replaced by a grittier calculus.

Animating Cuomo's refusal to recede into retirement, or at least lay low in the aftermath of his resignation – which was ultimately prompted by a state legislature that was poised to impeach, convict and remove him from office – are twin struggles: to clear his name and, at the same time, make sure that New Yorkers do not forget it.

'I don't know that he is powerful, but I think he is feared'

Today, Cuomo's public voice is mostly limited to his email list and Twitter account, a running feed of broadsides by his lawyer, Rita Glavin, and spokesman Rich Azzopardi against the investigation overseen by New York Attorney General Letitia James into Cuomo's alleged sexual misconduct. Cuomo frequently retweets sympathetic opinion articles, including a Newsday op-ed from September that described his downfall as an "Albany coup d'état." There's also a picture of the former governor and his dog, Captain, on a boat.

For many in New York politics, from operatives to lawmakers, Cuomo's swapping of the executive chamber for an online echo chamber has been a welcome one – and created a new dynamic they are keen to maintain.