Chris Wallace Leaves Fox News After 18 Years—And Joins CNN+

Topline

Veteran news anchor Chris Wallace announced Sunday he is leaving Fox News after 18 years—a move many are hailing as a loss for the network that depended on Wallace's perceived credibility for balance—and will be joining rival CNN's planned streaming service, according to a release from the network.

Key Facts

Wallace abruptly announced his departure on-air at the end of his show Fox News Sunday on what was his last broadcast for the network, saying he wants to "to try something new, to go beyond politics" and that he's "ready for a new adventure." Wallace's contact with Fox News is believed to have expired, reported Variety. In a statement from CNN to Forbes, Wallace said he is "excited to explore the world of streaming. I look forward to the new freedom and flexibility streaming affords in interviewing major figures across the news landscape—and finding new ways to tell stories." Fox News said they are "extremely proud of our journalism" and of Wallace, and Fox News Sunday will continue to be hosted by a rotation of anchors "until a permanent host is named," according to the New York Times. Wallace was allegedly unhappy with Fox's airing of host Tucker Carlson's series Patriot Purge, in which interviewees spread conspiracy theories about the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol: NPR reported last month that Wallace complained to higher-ups at the network about the program, and he interviewed Rep. Liz Cheney, who rejected the claims made in the series. Wallace's Fox News colleague Bret Baier tweeted it was "an honor to work alongside" Wallace, though Carlson and other Fox personalities remained mum on his departure.

Tangent

Wallace's exit comes amid a flurry of high-profile media shakeups. Last month, Brian Williams announced he was leaving NBC after 28 years. Last week, CNN fired star anchor Chris Cuomo after it was revealed he aided his brother, former New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo, through the latter's sexual harassment scandal.

Key Background

Wallace, 74, is the son of journalist Mike Wallace, one of the original hosts of "60 Minutes." During his time on Fox, Wallace moderated two presidential debates, in 2016 and 2020. He is known for holding a hard line with interviewees and other Fox personalities, and criticizing his colleagues for being too partisan or for for going after "the media." Former President Trump attacked Wallace's coverage of him often, sometimes while appearing on Fox, as some other personalities on the network were not as critical of the then-president. Wallace has said he was "sickened" by the Jan. 6 attack and he stopped inviting some lawmakers who challenged the election results on his show because he doesn't "want to hear their crap."

Crucial Quote