CNN defended Chris Cuomo for using Andrew Cuomo's power as New York governor to access COVID-19 tests when they were hard to find

CNN defended Chris Cuomo on Wednesday after allegations that his brother, Andrew Cuomo, used his authority as governor of New York to secure family members priority coronavirus tests last year.

In a statement, the network said Chris Cuomo was acting "as any human being would" in reportedly accepting his brother's help.

"It is not surprising that in the earliest days of a once-in-a-century global pandemic, when Chris was showing symptoms and was concerned about possible spread, he turned to anyone he could for advice and assistance, as any human being would," a spokesperson for the network told The Washington Post.

Cuomo, who has a prime-time news show on CNN, has not personally commented on the allegation.

CNN did not immediately respond to Insider's request for further comment on the claims.

On March 31, 2020, Chris Cuomo announced that he had tested positive for the illness. He quarantined for several weeks afterward. He did not reveal how he had obtained a test to learn of his diagnosis.

Andrew Cuomo is facing the greatest crisis of his political career over allegations he sexually harassed female colleagues, and concealing COVID-19 nursing home deaths.

Chris Cuomo has been criticized for a series of softball interviews with his brother last year over his handling of the coronavirus.

As pressure on the governor mounted, Cuomo told his CNN audience that he would not cover news about his brother but said that his colleagues at CNN would.

The statement defending Chris on the issue of the tests came after a report by the Albany Times-Union described how Andrew Cuomo and Health Commissioner Howard Zucker arranged tests for Cuomo family members including his brother, mother, and sister in the early weeks of the pandemic.

At the time, tests were not widely available to the public.

According to the report, members of Cuomo's family were tested several times at their homes, with samples from the tests bumped to the front of the queue for processing.

The governor's office has denied the allegation that favoritism played a role in establishing who got the test.

"Among those we assisted were members of the general public, including legislators, reporters, state workers and their families who feared they had contracted the virus and had the capability to further spread it," the office said.