Cuomo Hid New York State Nursing Home Deaths in Spring 2020

News emerged late last month that Governor Andrew Cuomo's office had radically understated the number of Covid-19 deaths that occurred in New York State nursing homes in March and April of 2020. These deaths were a sore point for Cuomo, whose daily pandemic briefings last year elevated him to national prominence as a straight-talking teller of home truths. But now it turns out that the governor—while basking in media adulation as a hero of the pandemic—covered up the extent of the problem specifically because, according to reporting from the New York Post, his office didn't want President Trump to "turn this into a giant political football" by instructing the Department of Justice to investigate Cuomo's handling of the situation. In other words, Cuomo buried evidence and impeded a federal investigation, hoping that a new administration would leave him alone.

Late last March, Cuomo's state health commissioner Howard Zucker signed a decree ordering nursing homes to admit or readmit Covid patients released from hospitals, even if they remained infectious. The decision was made when the primary fear of rising contagion was that hospital emergency rooms and intensive-care units would be overrun by the desperately sick; moving stabilized patients into care facilities appeared to be the least bad option.

Cuomo cannot in good faith be faulted for initially making this determination, though it allowed the virus to spread like fire throughout the state's nursing homes, infecting and killing the elderly and immune-compromised in droves. But he can be held to account for not rescinding the statewide order until May 10, well after it was obvious that hospitals were not being swamped by patients requiring intubation and that the policy was causing massive death in the nursing homes.

Cuomo ducked press demands for nursing-home mortality data throughout 2020, even as every other state made the information public. While New York admitted to about 7,000 nursing home deaths, informed estimates put the real count at around 12,000; the state refused to confirm the numbers. Last month, Attorney General Letitia James released a report acknowledging that the real death toll was close to 13,000. In reaction to this news, Cuomo snapped, "Who cares? 33 [percent], 28 [percent]. Died in a hospital. Died in a nursing home. They died."