Chris Cuomo's former executive producer felt 'threatened' before quitting, sources say

A former executive producer on Chris Cuomo's CNN show begged to leave after clashing with the host and feeling threatened, sources say.

Melanie Buck worked on Cuomo Prime Time from April 2018 to March 2020 when she asked to be taken off the show and moved to another department, Page Six reported, citing 'a CNN insider'.

More than one source allegedly told the outlet that Buck had 'felt threatened'.

Buck confirmed in a statement via CNN that she had asked to leave the show.

'I spent two years as EP on Chris' show and I'm proud to have led it to #1 at CNN,' the producer said in the statement to Page Six.

'We ultimately had significant differences, and I asked to leave the show. I have moved on and am looking forward to my latest role with CNN+.'

A former executive producer on Chris Cuomo(right)'s CNN show begged to leave after clashing with the host and feeling threatened, sources say. Melanie Buck (left) worked on Cuomo Prime Time from April 2018 to March 2020 when she asked to be taken off the show and moved to another department, Page Six reported, citing 'a CNN insider'

After leaving Cuomo's show, Buck executive produced the channel's 2020 election coverage, live events and taped special programming.

She is now working on live morning coverage for CNN+ - a subscription streaming service set to launch next year.

Reports of Buck's clashes with Cuomo come as the anchor is facing heat over allegations of inappropriate physical contact.

Shelley Ross, another former executive producer of Cuomo's show, accused the CNN anchor of groping her back in 2005.

Ross wrote in an op-ed for the New York Times last week stating that Cuomo squeezed her buttock without her permission.

After a response from Cuomo, Ross said he's 'no more enlightened today than he was then'.

Cuomo - who has barely been seen in public since the allegation surfaced last week - appeared to dismiss the claim, and noted that he had apologized to her back then.

'As Shelley acknowledges, our interaction was not sexual in nature. It happened 16 years ago in a public setting when she was a top executive at ABC,' he said. 'I apologized to her then, and I meant it.'

But Ross slammed Cuomo's statement, saying it proves that the CNN anchor has not changed in the 16 years since the incident at a going-away party for an ABC colleague.

'I was hoping that in 15, 16 years that he had changed,' she told Insider, 'but he's no more enlightened today than he was then, as demonstrated by his response.'

On Sunday, Cuomo was seen driving his vintage Pontiac Firebird in the Hamptons

He gave photographers a thumbs-up amidst the groping allegations

Cuomo dressed casually in a t-shirt, shorts, a baseball cap and sunglasses on Sunday in the Hamptons

Shelley Ross, left, a former executive producer of Cuomo's Primetime Live show, accused CNN anchor Chris Cuomo, right, of groping her at a party in 2005. He has not denied these allegations, and noted that he apologized to her after the incident

'I don't acknowledge that there's anything that was 'our interaction,'' she said. 'I was not a participant. I was groped. 'And so to say that I acknowledge the interaction, no. That shows a lack of enlightenment.'

Ross had previously written that she did not want Cuomo to be fired from CNN, where he has served as an anchor since 2013, but instead urged him to 'journalistically repent' for his behavior.