Chris Cuomo spotted carrying Christmas wreaths on Thanksgiving hours before his tirade

Chris Cuomo was spotted loading Christmas wreaths into his car on Thanksgiving day hours before going on a tirade about cancel culture and the holidays.

The CNN anchor and radio host was seen loading several Christmas wreaths into his Tesla before lamenting about hating the holiday on his SiriusXM radio show Let's Get After It with Chris Cuomo.

Cuomo, 51 and his wife Cristina, 51, picked out their Christmas decorations in Amagansett on Thursday.

He was sporting dark camouflaged shorts, a black zip-up hoodie, a gray beanie and sneakers while loading the decor into the car.

Cristina was seen wearing blue jeans, a white and navy blue stripped sweater and a navy puffer jacket with her name emblazoned on it in gold carrying a bouquet to the car.

Chris Cuomo was spotted loading Christmas wreaths into the trunk of his Tesla on Thanksgiving in New York

Cuomo, 51, was sporting dark camouflaged shorts, a black zip up hoodie, a gray beanie and sneakers on Thursday

Cuomo's wife, Cristina, 51, joined him as they picked out Christmas decorations to bring home with him

The CNN anchor and Sirius XM radio host filled his car with Christmas greenery in Amagansett on Thanksgiving

Cuomo went on to explain that Thanksgiving is his 'favorite holiday' but that 'woke folk trying to kill it' for him

Cuomo's holiday tirade aired on the latest episode of his Sirius XM radio show, Let's Get After It with Chris Cuomo

In the latest edition of Let's Get After It, released on Thursday, Thanksgiving day, Cuomo expressed his love for the holiday and his frustration with 'woke folks' who 'kill it' by pointing to the historical context.

Cuomo opened by stating that Thanksgiving is his 'favorite holiday.'

'In fact, it's really the only one I really like, I like Easter also in terms of like religious, like, that's the one for me. I love the message of rebirth and renewal. Boy, do we need that s***,' the New York Post reported.

He went on to list other holidays he doesn't enjoy. 'Christmas doesn't do it for me. Halloween, candy, New Year's, depressing,' he claimed.

The radio host circled back to his 'favorite holiday,' Thanksgiving: 'This is my jam and... this is my jam!'

But he complained that the national holiday is being ruined by 'woke folk' and cancel culture. 'And now you woke folk trying to kill it for me,' he said. 'Listen, man, you know, don't come up at me with all this pilgrim stuff.'

'I don't give a damn about the pilgrims and the indigenous people, the Native Americans, the Indians, wherever, whatever, whatever group of them wants to be called,' Cuomo said. 'I don't care about any of that.'

He continued trying to reason: 'I care about the suffrage. I care about the exploitation. But I don't need that story for Thanksgiving. I don't need it at all.'

His older brother, disgraced former New York Governor Andrew Cuomo, had shared a more uplifting Thanksgiving message with a family photo including his mother and three daughters.

Andrew, 63, resigned from office in August after investigators working for New York Attorney General Letitia James authored a report concluding he had sexually harassed 11 women.

He tweeted Thursday: 'Today and everyday, I'm thankful for my girls Cara, Mariah & Michaela and for our family's rock, my mom, Matilda Raffa Cuomo.'