Colin Powell, former general and secretary of state, dead at 84

Colin Powell, a retired four-star general and White House national security adviser who served as the nation's first black secretary of state, died Monday as a result of complications from COVID-19, his family said.

The 84-year-old was fully vaccinated against the virus but had been treated over the past few years for multiple myeloma — a type of blood cancer that can limit the body's ability to fight infection, according to his longtime aide.

In his four decades of public life, Powell was the first black man to serve as national security adviser near the end of Ronald Reagan's presidency and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff from 1989 to 1993. In the latter role, he oversaw the US invasion of Panama and later the US invasion of Kuwait to oust the Iraqi army in 1991.

"General Colin L. Powell, former U.S. Secretary of State and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, passed away this morning due to complications from Covid 19. He was fully vaccinated," his family said in a statement on Facebook.

"We want to thank the medical staff at Walter Reed National Medical Center for their caring treatment. We have lost a remarkable and loving husband, father, grandfather and a great American."

Powell's family did not address whether he had any underlying illnesses, but his aide Peggy Cifrino confirmed he had been battling multiple myeloma.

It wasn't immediately clear what complications he suffered or how long Powell had been in the hospital prior to his death.

He is survived by his wife of nearly 60 years, Alma Powell, and their three children.

Powell was also the first black secretary of state during President George W. Bush's first term from 2001 to 2005.

His reputation suffered a painful setback in 2003 when he delivered a speech to the United Nations Security Council to make the case that the US should go to war against Iraq.

He later admitted his speech was rife with inaccuracies and false intelligence that claimed there was evidence Iraq and Saddam Hussein were hiding weapons of mass destruction.

Powell resigned in 2005 and later referred to his UN speech as a "blot" that would forever tarnish his record.

In his 2012 memoir "It Worked for Me," Powell wrote: "I am mad mostly at myself for not having smelled the problem. My instincts failed me.

"It was by no means my first, but it was one of my most momentous failures, the one with the widest-ranging impact."

He added: "The event will earn a prominent paragraph in my obituary."

Bush was among those to lead the tributes for Powell, saying he was "highly respected at home and abroad."

"He was a great public servant starting with his time as a soldier during Vietnam. Many presidents relied on General Powell's counsel and experience. He was such a favorite of presidents that he earned the Presidential Medal of Freedom — twice," Bush said in a statement.

"He was highly respected at home and abroad. And most important, Colin was a family man and a friend. Laura and I sent Alma and their children our sincere condolences as they remember the life of a great man."

President Joe Biden hailed Powell as a patriot who broke down racial barriers and "embodied the highest ideals of both warrior and diplomat."

"Having fought in wars, he understood better than anyone that military might alone was not enough to maintain our peace and prosperity. From his front-seat view of history, advising presidents and shaping our nation's policies, Colin led with his personal commitment to the democratic values that make our country strong. Time and again, he put country before self, before party, before all else — in uniform and out — and it earned him the universal respect of the American people," Biden said in a statement.

"Above all, Colin was my friend. Easy to share a laugh with. A trusted confidant in good and hard times. He could drive his Corvette Stingray like nobody's business.