Trump's Response to Powell's Death Lays Bare the Politics of Mourning

After four-star General and former Secretary of State Colin Powell died, emotional tributes poured out from elected officials honoring Powell's character and longtime service to his country. President Joe Biden and former President Barack Obama issued long, personal statements about what Powell had meant to them. Former President George W. Bush and his vice president, Dick Cheney, expressed their deep personal sadness over the loss. And sitting Secretary of State Anthony Blinken delivered formal remarks recalling how kindly Powell had treated career diplomats and what a mentor Powell had been to many.

There was nothing from the immediate past president, Donald Trump – not even a brief, rote statement of condolence. And on Tuesday morning, Trump unloaded on the recently deceased man, dead at 84 from COVID-19 complications, who had crossed party lines to endorse Trump's Democratic opponents in 2016 and 2020.

"Wonderful to see Colin Powell, who made big mistakes on Iraq and famously, so-called weapons of mass destruction, be treated in death so beautifully by the Fake News Media," Trump said in a statement. "Hope that happens to me someday. He was a classic RINO [Republican in Name Only], if even that, always being the first to attack other Republicans. He made plenty of mistakes, but anyway, may he rest in peace!"

Republicans aligned with Trump or that wing of the party toed the line, not going so far as to openly insult Powell, but by remaining quiet or putting out brief and impersonal statements of condolence. Only a handful – such as Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, who angered Trump when the Kentucky Republican said Trump was morally responsible for the Jan. 6 insurrection – made more effusive remarks .

This is the new mourning in America, where even the death of a widely admired and barrier-breaking military and diplomatic leader has been reduced to a political talking point. And while the deaths of politicians have been used as partisan platforms before, Trump, experts say, has taken it to a new level.

"Their silence is a measure of their cowardice" in failing to praise Powell along with Democrats and Republicans who are not Trump-aligned, says Mac Stipanovich, a veteran Republican political strategist in Florida who now considers himself an independent.

"They are so afraid of his MAGA myrmidons that they would rather pass up the opportunity to laud a man of the stature of Colin Powell, who richly deserves their praise, particularly in the Republican Party, than run any risk on incurring the disappointment – not even the wrath – of Donald Trump," Stipanovich adds.