The Powell Doctrine Lives On

In the beginning, Secretary of State Colin Powell was expected to be the star of the George W. Bush administration. Judging from polls, the former Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman and victorious Gulf War strategist was more popular than Bush, and he might have been president himself. Powell could silence a room just by clearing his throat—and he would present the judicious view in every cabinet meeting.

In the beginning, Secretary of State Colin Powell was expected to be the star of the George W. Bush administration. Judging from polls, the former Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman and victorious Gulf War strategist was more popular than Bush, and he might have been president himself. Powell could silence a room just by clearing his throat—and he would present the judicious view in every cabinet meeting.

Powell, who died Monday at age 84, was heir to a treasured tradition of pragmatic internationalism harking back to his hero George C. Marshall, another ex-general who became America's top diplomat; Henry Stimson (secretary of state under Herbert Hoover and secretary of war under Franklin D. Roosevelt); and Dean Acheson, Harry Truman's secretary of state. Powell added his own strategic embellishment to this tradition. A cornerstone of what came to be known as the Powell Doctrine was that the use of U.S. military force should be astringent in the extreme. It should be mobilized only with overwhelming numbers, in situations where victory was near-certain, and where the exit strategy was clear. Powell also believed that the support of U.S. allies was critical.

As we know, this did not become the view—or the policy—of the Bush administration. Bush went in virtually the opposite direction, unilaterally invading Iraq after 9/11 on concocted evidence (Powell's worst moment in public life was presenting this evidence to the United Nations in 2003) with insufficient planning and no exit strategy in sight. The Powell Doctrine was also absent from 20 years of muddling through in Afghanistan, where there was no sense of what victory would look like.

Yet it appears that one of Powell's most enduring legacies will be a renewed embrace of his guiding philosophy. President Joe Biden's decision to withdraw from Afghanistan came because, he complained, the Pentagon could give him no clear strategy for success. In attempting to regain their credibility with their civilian overlords, U.S. military officials will no doubt fall back on Powellian restraint, as a number of commentators have suggested in recent months.

"We could have avoided the expenditure of over $2 trillion dollars, the loss of the lives of more than 2,300 U.S. servicemen, as well as the tragic and humiliating disaster that is unfolding in Afghanistan if we had applied the Powell Doctrine twenty years ago," Richard J. Pierce Jr., a George Washington University scholar, wrote in the Hill in August.

According to Seth Jones, a military expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, most of the Powell Doctrine "appears to be relevant today, including the list of questions that any U.S. policymaker needs to ask before deciding on military action." Still, Jones said a revived Powell Doctrine will not be sufficient by itself. "The rules tell us whether or not to use force, not what happens over the course of a conflict," he said.