12 Famous Faces We Lost in October 2021

In October 2021, we sadly lost stars from the worlds of music, acting, sports and politics; many of them far too young.

Here, we remember 12 and the legacies they left behind.

James Michael Tyler

James Michael Tyler, best known for his role as Gunther in Friends, died on October 24 following a three-year battle with prostate cancer. He was 59 years old.

He had kept his stage 4 prostate cancer private until after the broadcast of Friends: The Reunion in June 2021, which he appeared on via Zoom.

Tyler said on the Today show: "I wanted to be a part of that, and initially I was going to be on the stage, at least, with them, and be able to take part in all the festivities. It was bittersweet, honestly. I was very happy to be included.

"It was my decision not to be a part of that physically and make an appearance on Zoom, basically, because I didn't wanna bring a downer on it, you know? I didn't want to be like, 'Oh, and by the way, Gunther has cancer.'"

At this time, the cancer metastasized to his spine, leading him to use a wheelchair.

Tyler's Friends castmates were among those paying tribute following the news.

Jennifer Aniston, whose character Rachel was the object of Gunther's affections, wrote on Instagram: "Friends would not have been the same without you. Thank you for the laughter you brought to the show and to all of our lives. You will be so missed."

Tyler also appeared in shows including Sabrina The Teenage Witch, Episodes and Scrubs, and the thriller Motel Blue.

Colin Powell

Colin Powell died aged 84 on October 18 at Walter Reed National Military Medical Center following complications from COVID-19.

He had been vaccinated, but his multiple myeloma had compromised his immune system, while he also had early-stage Parkinson's disease.

Powell was the first Black U.S. secretary of state, and had shaped foreign policy in leadership roles in a number of Republican administrations.

Following a career in the military, he became first Black national security adviser during the end of Ronald Reagan's presidency and the youngest and first African American chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President George H.W. Bush.

However, despite his popularity soaring following the Gulf War, his reputation was tainted when he pushed faulty intelligence before the United Nations to advocate for the Iraq War, while serving as George W. Bush's first secretary of state.

Following Powell's death, Bush said he was "a great public servant" who was "such a favourite of Presidents that he earned the Presidential Medal of Freedom - twice. He was highly respected at home and abroad. And most important, Colin was a family man and a friend."

Halyna Hutchins

Cinematographer Halyna Hutchins died aged 42 on October 21, when she was fatally wounded on the set of the Western movie Rust in Santa Fe, New Mexico.

Hutchins was working as director of photography on the film and was setting up a scene when a prop gun was discharged by Alec Baldwin, shooting her in the mid-section.

She was taken by helicopter to the University of New Mexico Hospital, but died from her injuries.

It later emerged that the prop revolver, which Baldwin was told was "cold" (did not contain ammunition), contained a live round.

The investigation into the incident is ongoing.

Born in Ukraine, Hutchins was a rising star in the world of cinematography and had worked on the movies Archenemy, starring Joe Manganiello, Darlin' and Blindfire.

She is survived by her husband Matthew and son Andros.

Emani 22

R&B singer Emani 22 died on October 11, at the age of 22.

Her death was confirmed by her manager Fred Green, who said in a statement: "It is with heavy hearts that the family of Emani has confirmed her passing. They would like to share that although she fought courageously and the medical team went above and beyond doing everything in their power to aid in her recovery, on Monday, October 11th, Emani succumbed to the injuries she sustained after a tragic accident.

"At this time, Emani's family is asking for privacy to mourn and honor her life and memories."

Her cause of death was not immediately released.

Emani 22, real name Emani Johnson, had released her first album The Color Red last year, containing the singles "Feelings" and "Better Days."

Ronnie Tutt

Ronnie Tutt, drums, performs with the Elvis Presley band at the Paradiso on January 8th 2004 in Amsterdam, Netherlands. Frans Schellekens/Redferns

Legendary drummer Ronnie Tutt died on October 16, at the age of 83.

Tutt played drums for Elvis as part of the TCB Band from 1969 until 1977, and was part of the band put together by James Burton for Elvis' 1969 Las Vegas opening.

He then stayed playing with the King until his death in 1977.

In addition to drumming for Elvis, Tutt played with Roy Orbison, Johnny Cash, Elvis Costello, Stevie Nicks, Kenny Rogers and Glen Campbell.

News of his death was confirmed by Elvis Presley Enterprises, who said they were "deeply saddened" in a statement.