Powell envisioned moving the GOP 'close to the spirit of Lincoln.' It embraced Trump's view instead.

Colin L. Powell had kept the political world guessing: Was he a Democrat or a Republican? At a packed news conference in November 1995, dominated by speculation about a presidential bid for the trailblazing four-star general, Powell delivered the big reveal: He was a Republican. Wp Get the full experience. Choose your plan ArrowRight That announcement was overshadowed by his other news, that he wouldn't seek the presidency, clearing the way for Sen. Bob Dole (Kan.) to seize the GOP nomination and removing a challenge to President Bill Clinton (D). But Powell used that very public moment to lay out his vision for the Republican Party and what the first Black chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff hoped to accomplish.

"I believe I can help the party of Lincoln move once again close to the spirit of Lincoln," Powell said in a tacit rebuke of GOP ideologues who opposed racial diversity and extending a welcoming hand to immigrants.

His vision for the Republican Party, however, never materialized. Instead, it swiftly and surely moved toward Donald Trump's political worldview, a party warning of immigrants replacing White Americans, one wary and sometimes mocking of international engagement and willing to embrace a populism that has divided the nation. Powell, the hero of the 1991 Persian Gulf War who once was heralded as the next Dwight D. Eisenhower, became an outlier in the party.

In 2008, he endorsed Barack Obama, the first Black president, and later backed Democratic presidential candidates, soundly rejecting Trump. In January, after a pro-Trump mob stormed the U.S. Capitol, Powell said he could "no longer call himself a Republican."

The divorce seemed inevitable for a never-Trumper often described as a RINO — Republican in name only — by the party faithful, some of whom had once promoted him as a possible presidential nominee, a Black Republican in a GOP struggling for diversity.

"He certainly is one of the greatest political what-ifs," said Douglas Heye, a former Republican National Committee communications director who served as deputy chief of staff to former House majority leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.), referring to Powell's potential as a leader of a modern GOP. "It highlights the fact that people like him were turning away in part because of some of that increased — especially racial — rhetoric that was acceptable in too many parts of the Republican Party."