#DesertStorm30: Powell says Veterans did 'fabulous' job

During Desert Storm, there were many faces of the war. President George H.W. Bush made decisions as the commander in chief and delivered remarks from the White House to the American people on the war's opening night. Defense Secretary Dick Cheney advised the president on policy. Army Gen. Norman Schwartzkopf led the troops downrange. Serving as the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, there was an Army Veteran advising Bush and Cheney while working with Schwartzkopf: Gen. Colin Powell.

Powell was less than a year into his tour as chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff when Operation Desert Shield started in August 1990. Soon after, he was a key player in a war that the now 83-year-old Veteran fondly recalls during his travels downrange to visit deployed service members.

"These youngsters were great," the retired general said. "These youngsters were fabulous. These youngsters wanted to do their very, very best. These youngsters trained, like you wouldn't believe to get ready for this conflict."

'We're a family'

Powell said one of his fondest memories of Desert Storm Veterans was watching an Army sergeant talking to a reporter right before the war started. Powell said the reporter approached a tank crew and asked questions to get the soldier to admit fear.

"He said, 'Well, what do you think? Are you afraid? Are you ready?' And the young man answered, 'I'm ready. Sir, we're trained. We've been working hard and I'm ready. We're ready.' He said, 'I'm not afraid. I'm not afraid because I'm with my family. This is my family. We are a family. We will do this well. We will get it done."

Powell said 30 years later that memory still is crystal clear.

"I'll never forget that expression of what he said," Powell said. "His sergeants were smiling behind him. The other soldiers were smiling and that was the attitude that we went into this conflict: we're a family. And it was not just a family of tankers. It was a family of pilots. It was a family of everybody you can name."

Before the war ground war started, the Vietnam Veteran traveled to 2nd Brigade, 101st Airborne Division to speak to the soldiers. Powell commanded the brigade back in the 1970s.

"I went and talked to them," he said. "It was a very moving moment for me."

Not all moments were serious

He then went to another unit near the Saudi Arabia-Kuwait border. As he walked with troops, he saw camels nearby. He asked if the camels bothered the unit. The NCO he spoke to said the camels realized when a truck pulled up with orange mailbags, they were in for a treat.

"The camels noticed that about once every couple of days a truck would come in, and in the truck, a lot of baggage would be thrown out," Powell said. "It didn't take them long to realize that when it's an orange bag, it's a mail bag. It didn't take them long to realize that when you have a mailbag and it's opened up, it has cookies because the GI's mother's sent them cookies."

Road to war through a fax

Powell said Bush was cautious not to "go to war just to go to war."

"President Bush went out of his way to see if he could not find a political solution and not just a conflict," Powell said.

Despite serving as the senior uniformed military officer, Powell said he was reluctant to place U.S. military lives at stake unless necessary.

"I don't like war," he said. "I hate war, but people thought that, you know, I was too reluctant to go to war. Well, I'll go to war when you want me to, but until we have to, let's see what we can do to solve the problem."

His policy to go to war as a last resort led to the media-labeled Powell Doctrine. The doctrine's principle idea is that, if there isn't a political solution, then the military should put its full weight behind the war to decisively win.

"That's what we did in Desert Storm," he said. "We have to make sure that when we go to war, we go to war for the reason. We have to make sure that we've done everything we can to try not to have a war, but if one comes, fight it and fight it to the death. Fight it so they know America cannot be challenged in this way."

When diplomatic efforts with Iraq failed, then it was time to send in the all-volunteer force. Because of the technology limitations, Desert Storm started over a fax machine.

"Back then, it wasn't quite the same," he said. "The way General Schwarzkopf and I talked to each other quietly was with a fax machine. He had one and I had one. Our assistants had access to it and nobody else did."

Air war softens the battlefield

Powell said one of the major accomplishments of Desert Storm was sending in airpower opening night and for several weeks after.