Fact check: False claim that Bill Clinton was poisoned to death at Guantanamo Bay

The claim: Bill Clinton was poisoned to death at Guantanamo Bay

Former President Bill Clinton was recently hospitalized in California for a non-COVID-related infection, but some social media users shared an alternative explanation: he was poisoned to death at Guantanamo Bay.

Clinton is the latest target of fabricated stories regarding fake deaths, military arrests and executions of high-profile figures and politicians. The claims are often inspired by the baseless QAnon conspiracy theory, which alleges there is a "deep state" apparatus run by Democratic celebrities and political elites who are pedophiles.

"Bill Clinton Death Ruled a Homicide, Death by Poison," reads a screenshot of a Sept. 30 article that was shared to Instagram on Oct. 15 and accumulated more than 700 likes within a few days.

In recent days, other Instagram users shared similar versions of the claim, questioning if Clinton actually had sepsis, the bacterial infection he was treated for at a Southern California hospital.

However, Clinton is alive and was not poisoned to death in Guantanamo Bay. The claim stems from Real Raw News, a website that routinely publishes fake stories and conspiracy theories.

Fact check: Image claiming to show Barack Obama's birth certificate is fake

The social media users and Real Raw News did not return requests for comment.

Clinton was not poisoned

Clinton was released from the hospital on Oct. 17 and returned to his home in New York to finish his course of antibiotics, according to a statement from his spokesperson, Angel Ureña. There are no credible news reports stating Clinton was poisoned to death.

In an Oct. 15 statement, Ureña said "all health indicators are trending in the right direction" and Clinton is in "excellent spirits." Additionally, on Oct. 1, the day after the Real Raw News article was published, Clinton shared a happy birthday tweet to former President Jimmy Carter.

Clinton has also tweeted about the death of Colin Powell and other news events.

The claim originated in a Sept. 30 article by Real Raw News, which has a history of promoting false claims about the "arrests" and "executions" of politicians and celebrities including former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and Hunter Biden, among others.