What You Need to Know About Joe Biden's Unprecedented Inauguration

This week's inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden will be like no other.

While Biden is expected to follow the traditional swearing-in at the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday, in-person ceremonies have been scaled back and are heavily virtual due to novel coronavirus protections coupled with massive post-insurrection security measures to ward against possible violence in Washington, D.C.

Crowds of tourists have been asked to stay away and in their stead are upwards of 25,000 National Guard soldiers protecting the heart of the nation's capital. At night, the glitz and glamour of black-tie inaugural balls will be replaced by a star-studded virtual concert hosted by Tom Hanks streamed live and broadcast on the major networks.

There will be a mix of other events this week, including a memorial on Tuesday for the victims of the coronavirus pandemic.

Here's what else you need to know about the inauguration of the 46th president of the United States.

What events are leading up to Wednesday?

Several days of virtual programming kicked off Sunday night with a concert, followed by events Monday on Martin Luther King Day devoted to service and promoted by President-elect Biden's inaugural committee.

Biden spent some of the day volunteering at a Philadelphia hunger relief organization while Vice President-elect Kamala Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, volunteered in D.C.

Organizers encouraged others to volunteer for Monday and beyond at bideninaugural.org/day-of-service.

On Tuesday night, a lighting ceremony at the Lincoln Memorial Reflecting Pool to honor people killed by COVID-19 will be held "to memorialize American lives lost," the Presidential Inaugural Committee said.

The committee is inviting communities around the country to join the Washington ceremony by lighting up buildings and ringing church bells at 5:30 p.m. local time in "a national moment of unity and remembrance."

How and when will Joe Biden arrive?

Plans for Biden to take an Amtrak from his home in Wilmington, Delaware, to D.C. were scrapped earlier this week in part due to heightened security concerns, according to CNN, which first reported the news. (A Biden inaugural spokesman said in response only that his travel plans had never been made public.)

It is not clear how he will now arrive in D.C., reports CBS News.

Biden has, however, accepted an invitation to stay at the historic Blair House, across the street from the White House, the night before the inauguration. But it's unclear whether that's where he will be sleeping, according to The Washington Post.

What are some of the other changes due to security?

Amid concerns about another incident, in the wake of the Jan. 6 insurrection at the Capitol, Biden's inauguration rehearsal, originally set for Sunday, was postponed to Monday, Politico reported Thursday night.

The move came after Biden and his team received a briefing last Wednesday about threats from the FBI, the Secret Service and national security officials, according to Politico.

On Thursday, FBI Director Christopher Wray said that the bureau was tracking an "extensive amount of concerning online chatter," including calls for armed protests leading up to the inauguration.

"When we talk about potential threats, we have to say about that we are seeing an extensive amount of concerning online chatter about a number of events surrounding the inauguration," Wray said in his first briefing since the rioting at the Capitol, where five people died.

The National Mall will be closed and National Guard troops will be in place to keep Biden safe and thwart a possible repeat of the violence.

How many will be at the inauguration?

A familiar theme of inaugurations past — crowd size — will be much downplayed this year, given the unusual circumstances.