Tom Morello: A Battle Hymn for a Peace Hero - The New York Times

Opinion Tom Morello A Battle Hymn for

a Peace Hero

In an act of vengeful patriotism, Tomas Young, a superhero-loving kid from Kansas City, enlisted in the Army after Sept. 11 to get back at the terrorists who had attacked his beloved country.

By the time he was deployed, he had begun to have misgivings. Why were we invading Iraq when it was Afghanistan that allegedly harbored our enemies? Why had Colin Powell lied through his teeth at the United Nations about weapons of mass destruction? Why were there so many civilian casualties? Why was Halliburton stock going through the roof?

With these doubts swirling in his mind he finally put his boots on the ground in Iraq. Five days later, on April 4, 2004, in an uncovered, unarmored five-ton truck in Sadr City he was hit by two rounds from an AK-47 that severed his spinal cord and paralyzed him from the waist down.

He came home with a new mission.

As a member of Iraq Veterans Against the War (now About Face: Veterans Against the War), Tomas Young became the most important antiwar activist since the Vietnam era.

His journey as an antiwar hero was brought to theaters in the excellent documentary, "Body of War." The film juxtaposes the difficult post-service life of the paraplegic Tomas, with excerpts from speeches by President George W. Bush and craven pro-war officials. They are equally painful to watch.

When Tomas reached out for permission to use my song "Battle Hymns" for the soundtrack, I was proud to oblige.

"Battle Hymns" by Tom Morello

We became fast friends and he introduced me to many of the other heroes of Iraq Veterans Against the War.

No one speaks with a more authoritative voice than those who have sacrificed their bodies and gone through hell for an empire's imperialist aims. Tomas took me to Walter Reed hospital, where we met shattered veterans like him. One 20-year-old man was literally blown in half.

Tomas didn't consider himself a war hero. He was a peace hero, his every word an indictment of those who caused the Iraq war.

He tirelessly crossed the country demanding an end to all wars, the humane treatment of veterans and restitution for the people of Iraq and Afghanistan. He was deeply concerned about the harm to innocent lives both at home and abroad. Here we had a great kinship. In the aftermath of "Shock and Awe" and the invasion, I kept waiting for someone to write a song expressing that sentiment. No one did, so I wrote it myself: "No One Left."

"No One Left" by Tom Morello

At one point, some of Tomas's rock 'n' roll friends offered to get him a fancy wheelchair that was more comfortable for his travels, but he refused to take it — "Other veterans don't get this, so why should I get special treatment?"

And then he had a pulmonary embolism.

Now nearly fully paralyzed and having trouble speaking, Tomas, like so many of his fellow veterans, contemplated ending it all. He made plans to enter hospice and have his feeding tube removed but wanted to give his friends a chance to say goodbye. He also had one more thing to say: On the 10th anniversary of the Iraq War, he published his "Last Letter" to George Bush and Dick Cheney.

I believe it is the most effective piece of antiwar literature written in 50 years: