Colin Powell and City College: Warring Legacies — The Campus Magazine

Before being appointed National Security Advisor during the Reagan administration, Powell served as assistant to Reagan's Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger, who, enlisting Powell's help, needed to drum up fear and hostility among the American people after a demoralizing defeat in Vietnam. Consciously and cynically selling the public on a new, multiracial vision of American interventionism, Weinberger led Reagan's dirty wars in El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Nicaragua. Here, Powell began to make his most notable impact on Defense Department policy, where he and his boss formulated the Powell-Weinberger Doctrine. The doctrine stresses that if diplomatic efforts have reached their limits, the military should use "overwhelming force," restricted by clear objectives and exit strategies to maintain vital national security interests.

When Bush Sr. was elected President, Powell was promoted to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and he got his first chance to test the doctrine for himself, spearheading the U.S. invasion of Panama. Clarence Lusane, a professor at Howard University, who visited Panama shortly after the invasion, recently recounted what he saw on Democracy Now!: "There were mass graves. There was the total destruction of neighborhoods. They bombed — these were poor neighborhoods, we should be clear. So, there were wealthy neighborhoods that were surgically missed, while they bombed neighborhoods that had not only been active, but had been — you know, very much embodied people who live there. So, it was a horrific invasion. And Powell said nothing about it." "And these were Afro-Panamanians." Despite appeals to diplomacy, clear objectives, and exit strategies, Powell's doctrine is one extreme deadly force meant to advance America's imperial aims.

Powell proved in the following years that he would violate his own doctrine if ordered to do so. No proof was more infamous than when he sold lies about Sadam Hussein's alleged possession of weapons of mass destruction to the American public and the international community, drumming up support for the invasion of Iraq, a quagmire of a conflict for which the United States did not have attainable objectives nor a clear exit strategy. Here lies the heart of Colin Powell's lasting legacy in the world. The incalculably horrendous endeavor, which, by the lowest estimates, killed hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians, was enabled by the very man whose name lines the halls of City College. No words can do justice to the pure devastation, which the United States wrought on the people of Iraq, and no convoluted excuses concerning CIA director David Tenet's last-minute introduction of false intelligence to Powell, nor apologies well past due, would stand up to the Geneva Conventions or the International Criminal Court. Colin Powell, reservations and all, went in front of the General Assembly of the United Nations and lent his credibility to the illegal invasion of Iraq. He never paid the price for it. He lived out the rest of his days peacefully, earning praise for his philanthropy. If only the people of Iraq were so lucky.

"A nation that continues year after year to spend more money on military defense than on programs of social uplift is approaching spiritual death."

- Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.