Intermountain Healthcare will require its caregivers to be vaccinated against COVID-19

Intermountain Healthcare has announced it will require "all of its caregivers" to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 in order to comply with pending federal rules.

Federal officials are moving forward on vaccine requirements for large employers — and previously have said government insurers like Medicare and Medicaid will only cover services from health care providers whose employees all are vaccinated.

That would eliminate coverage for about four in every 10 of Intermountain's patients, if the network did not require vaccines, said Dr. Mark Briesacher, chief physician executive for Intermountain.

"After reviewing the rules that we have received, it really became clear that we need to comply with these rules because this is about caring for people," Briesacher said in a news conference Wednesday. "We care for people who have Medicare insurance, Medicaid insurance, other forms of federal health insurance. We have connections to a variety of federal contracts."

About 80% of Intermountain's care providers already are fully vaccinated, according to a news statement Wednesday.

That means about one in five are not.

Those employees may seek exemptions on medical or religious grounds, Briesacher said — a process that's already in place for an array of other vaccinations that Intermountain requires employees to have, like those for the flu, whooping cough, measles, and other illnesses.

"We're going to work through those very thoughtfully, very carefully, in a generous way ... to honor those exemptions," Briesacher said.

Employees have until Jan. 5 to get their first shot of a vaccine. Those who haven't at that point will be put on "administrative leave," Briesacher said.

"We will ... continue that thoughtful conversation to understand what their needs are, what their questions are and get those answered," Briesacher said.

If employees remain unvaccinated and do not have an exemption as of Feb. 9 "we'll then begin to move to separate them from the organization," Briesacher said. "We'll do that in a very caring and thoughtful and supportive way, helping them land in a place that's right for them and best for them."

Briesacher said he doesn't "have a specific number in mind" of how many employees may quit or wait to be fired rather than get the vaccine.

"We've seen varying experiences across the United States when different health systems have gone through this," Briesacher said.