Michele Brown was vaccinated - but had a suppressed immune system. Would better health advice have saved her?

The feeling of relief was immense as 58-year-old Michele Brown returned home from the vaccine centre. Her husband, Terry, 61, had taken time off from his job as a supervisor at a heavy machinery factory to drive her to her second Covid-19 vaccination at a Gateshead community centre. In the car, Michele told her partner of 40 years that she felt like a weight had been lifted off her shoulders. "She said: 'At least we've got that done,'" Terry remembers. "'We'll be OK.'"

It was 28 April 2021. Michele, who had rheumatoid arthritis, an underactive thyroid and diabetes, had spent the last year and a half shielding indoors, on government advice. She was careful. She had a Covid station set up on the breakfast counter: lateral flow tests, bottles of antibacterial gel and disposable face masks. When family came to visit, a mask-wearing Michele would banish them to the furthest corner of the living room. "We couldn't kiss her," remembers her daughter, Kim Brown, 41, who lives in Durham. "She would say: 'You might have the coronies! I don't want no coronies. You're not giving me that crap.'"

After her vaccinations, Michele relaxed a tiny bit. She let her family visit more often, and stopped wearing a mask indoors when they did. But she still wasn't going out much: her rheumatoid arthritis made even brief excursions exhausting. Most of the time, Michele stayed home, chatting to Kim on the phone, watching TV and ordering endless packages online. By the time they arrived she rarely had a clue what was in them. When the news came on, Michele would sigh. "She'd see the numbers go up," says Kim, "and say: 'Those poor people. Those poor families.'"

Michele's family are mystified as to how she caught Covid – unless one of her rare visitors brought it into the house, or maybe it was when she went for a doctor's appointment. It doesn't really matter. When Michele became infected, it wrecked her body with brutal efficiency. Unknown to her, her immune system had been suppressed, most likely by the drugs she took to manage her arthritis, so her body had failed to mount a good response to the Covid-19 vaccine. In other words, the vaccine hadn't worked for her.

"I never heard anything like 'immunocompromised'," says Terry, bewildered and distraught. "We never did."

Michele was born in 1962, in the village of Stannington, Northumberland, the eldest of seven children. Her parents split up when she was an infant. Her father eventually won custody of Michele, but at her request, left her with her grandmother Manuel, who raised her. "She had a difficult childhood," says Kim. "She swore her kids wouldn't have the same childhood. And we didn't. We had everything we wanted. Love. Affection. We didn't want for anything."