'Saved by the Bell' star Dustin Diamond dead at 44 after cancer battle

Dustin Diamond, best known for playing Screech on the teen-themed comedy "Saved by the Bell," died Monday, less than a month after being diagnosed with lung cancer.

He was 44.

"He was diagnosed with this brutal, relentless form of malignant cancer only three weeks ago," his spokesman said in a statement to the Daily News. "In that time, it managed to spread rapidly throughout his system; the only mercy it exhibited was its sharp and swift execution. Dustin did not suffer. He did not have to lie submerged in pain. For that, we are grateful."

The former child actor was hospitalized in Florida for body pain and was diagnosed with Stage 4 small cell carcinoma. He began his first round of chemotherapy shortly after.

Diamond starred as Screech (far right) in "Saved by the Bell."

"Saved by the Bell" ran for four seasons on NBC, from 1989 to 1993, following a group of high school students and their principal, dealing with everyday teen problems, homelessness, drug use and divorce. Diamond starred alongside Mario Lopez, Mark-Paul Gosselaar, Tiffani Thiessen, Elizabeth Berkley, Lark Voorhies and Dennis Haskins.

But the cast splintered from Diamond after he published his 2009 unflattering tell-all, "Behind the Bell," in which he accused his co-stars of sleeping with each other and doing drugs on set.

Diamond later said the book was ghostwritten and publicly made amends with his castmates.

Diamond's Screech also appeared in several spinoffs.

"I will say, guys, I think you're fantastic, working with you has been just one of the icons of my life and I'm sorry that this has taken advantage of me, the book and other situations I'm sure we'll talk about here," he said on "Dr. Oz" in 2016. "But I'm sure that you've experienced downfalls, as well, in your time and I'm still loving you guys."

He also later revealed that his 2006 sex tape, "Screeched – Saved by the Smell," used a stuntman and that his face was later added in digitally.

After reprising his role in spinoffs "Saved by the Bell: The College Years" and "Saved by the Bell: The New Class," Diamond moved on to minor roles in movies like "Made" and "American Pie Presents: The Book of Love," and appearances on reality and quiz shows like "Celebrity Fit Club," "The Weakest Link" and "Celebrity Boxing 2."

He joined, then got kicked off of, "Celebrity Big Brother" in 2013.

"The hardest thing about being a child star is giving up your childhood. You don't get a childhood, really," Diamond said on a 2013 episode of "Where Are They Now?"

"You're a performer, you have to know your lines and rehearse and practice, making sure you are the funniest and the best you can be. Because if you weren't funny, you could be replaced."

The California native did not appear in Peacock's "Saved by the Bell" revival last year. His character's former classmates explained that Screech was living on the International Space Station with his robot, Kevin.

"Dustin, you will be missed my man," Lopez wrote on Instagram. "The fragility of this life is something never to be taken for granted. Prayers for your family will continue on."

Thiessen said she was "deeply saddened" by Diamond's death.

"Life is extremely fragile and it's something we should never take for granted," she wrote on Instagram. "God speed Dustin."