Award-winning author Joan Didion, acclaimed voice of 'New Journalism,' dead at age 87

Renowned writer Joan Didion, who emerged as a distinctive voice in the "New Journalism" of the 1960s to launch a decades-long and widely lauded career as an author, essayist and screenwriter, died Thursday at her Manhattan home. She was 87.

The cause of her death was complications from Parkinson's disease, according a statement from her publisher, Penguin Random House.

"One of the the country's most trenchant writes and astute observers," the publisher said in a statement announcing her passing. "Her best-selling words of fiction, commentary and memoir are considered modern classics."

Author Joan Didion sits in front of a photo of herself holding her daughter, Quintana Roo, and another picture of her daughter's wedding, in her New York apartment Sept. 26, 2005.

Didion, born in California, was one of the leading lights in the changing of the literary guard that saw the emergence of writers Gay Talese, Tom Wolfe, Hunter S. Thompson and Nora Ephron during the turbulent decade. Didion quickly became a well-known and highly-acclaimed writer, earning kudos for her elegant prose and acute social observations.

Her skills were on full display in a pair of acclaimed collections of essays: "Slouching Toward Bethlehem" in 1968 and "The White Album" in 1979. Topics ran the gamut from Haight-Asbury hippies in her home state to reclusive magnate Howard Hughes to Los Angeles rock band The Doors.

"Joan Didion was a legend," said journalist and former California first lady Maria Shriver in a tweet. "She wrote her mind and heart out, & we all benefited. As a journalist, a writer, a woman, a Californian — she was a tremendous influence on me in every respect."

Writer Joan Didion receives an Honorary Doctor of Letters during commencement ceremonies June 4, 2009 in Harvard Yard in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

Didion received the National Medal of Arts from President Barack Obama in 2013 and a volume of her unreleased essays was published earlier this year. She was honored with a National Humanities Medal a year earlier for a lifetime of "noticing things other people strive not to see."

"A brilliant author who changed the art of writing," tweeted actress and fan Reese Witherspoon. "Thank you #JoanDidion for sharing your stories and work with the world. My prayers go out to all who knew and loved her."

Didion's non-fiction book "The Year of Magical Thinking" earned the 2005 National Book Award for Non-Fiction for her account of a turbulent stretch where her daughter became gravely ill and her husband/collaborator John Gregory Dunne died from a heart attack.

Portrait of American author Joan Didion as she sits in a chair in front of a bookshelf, Berkeley, California, April 1981.

Their daughter Quintana passed away at age 39 by the time the book was published and Didion later adapted the tale into a Broadway production starring Vanessa Redgrave in 2007.

Didion also teamed with Dunne as screenwriting collaborators, working on films like "Panic in Needle Park" starring Al Pacino, a remake of "A Star is Born" starring Kris Kristofferson and Barbra Streisand, and "Up Close and Personal" with Robert Redford.

"Panic in Needle Park," set in New York, catapulted Pacino into stardom after she and Dunne optioned a story about drug-addicted denizens of the Upper West Side.