'Saturday Night Live' comedian Norm Macdonald dead at 61 after secret battle with cancer

Norm Macdonald, the longtime "Saturday Night Live" funnyman known best as the host of "Weekend Update," died Tuesday.

He was 61.

Macdonald succumbed to a nine-year cancer battle that he kept private, his management team said in a statement.

"He was most proud of his comedy," producing partner Lori Jo Hoekstra said. "He never wanted the diagnosis to affect the way the audience or any of his loved ones saw him. Norm was a pure comic. He once wrote that 'a joke should catch someone by surprise, it should never pander.' He certainly never pandered. Norm will be missed terribly."

Norm Macdonald died Tuesday.

Macdonald started his career as a writer on "Roseanne" before being hired at "SNL" in 1993, where he stayed for five years.

When Macdonald was taken off the "Weekend Update" desk in 1998, the network blamed low ratings, but the comedian took it personally, publicly accusing Don Ohlmeyer, the president of NBC West Coast, of firing him over jokes about O.J. Simpson.

"He thinks of himself as a straight shooter, even though he's a liar and a thug," Macdonald told the Daily News of Ohlmeyer in 1998.

Norm Macdonald is pictured in the 1990s on SNL.

A Macdonald idea continued at "SNL" long after he left. He created the "Celebrity Jeopardy!" sketches, the first three of which featured his Burt Reynolds exasperating Will Ferrell's Alex Trebek. After Macdonald left, Darrell Hammond's Sean Connery — who appeared in the first sketch — became Trebek's tormentor.

An "SNL" spokesman issued a statement Tuesday saying, "\\Today is a sad day. All of us here at 'SNL' mourn the loss of Norm Macdonald, one of the most impactful comedic voices of his or any other generation. There are so many things that we'll miss about Norm – from his unflinching integrity to his generosity to his consistent ability to surprise. But most of all he was just plain funny. No one was funny like Norm."

And that humor could be edgy.

In his 2011 Comedy Central special, "Me Doing Stand-Up," Macdonald even touched on cancer and the heroic descriptors used around patients.

"In the old days, they'd go, 'hey, that old man died.' Now, they go, 'hey, he lost his battle,'" Macdonald said. "That's no way to end your life. What a loser that guy was! Last thing he did was lose. He was waging a brave battle but at the end I guess he got kind of cowardly."

Chicago Bulls forward Dennis Rodman, left, throws a feather boa around the shoulders of Norm MacDonald, right, playing the character of Sen. Bob Dole during a dress rehearsal for NBC's "Saturday Night Live" in New York, Saturday May 11, 1996.

In the later years of his career, Macdonald starred in his own comedy series, "The Norm Show," from 1999 to 2001, on which he played Norm Henderson, an NHL player banned for life because of gambling and tax evasion. He starred for three years alongside Laurie Metcalf, Artie Lange and Ian Gomez.

He had a recurring role on "The Middle" as Mike Heck's brother, Rusty, and a short-lived Fox sitcom, "A Minute with Stan Cooper," which lasted just six episodes.

Macdonald recently voiced Yaphit, a Gelatin lieutenant, in Seth MacFarlane's "The Orville" and was a popular guest on late night shows, particularly those hosted by David Letterman and Conan O'Brien.