Did Larry King's Obsession With Death Fuel His 'Indomitable' Will to Live?

On a cool spring night in 1973, more than 1,000 people — students, activists, hippies, spiritual seekers — crammed into a ballroom at the University of California, Berkeley. They had come to hear Rennie Davis, then 32 and one of the most admired antiwar activists in the country, talk about changing the world. Davis was nothing short of a celebrity. Two years earlier, he helped organize the massive May Day protests against the Vietnam War, and in 1969, he and six men, who would come to be known as the Chicago Seven, were charged with conspiracy and inciting a riot outside the Democratic National Convention. Davis was one of only two defendants to testify during the raucous, highly publicized trial, which featured a parade of colorful characters, including an unhinged judge and the defense witnesses Allen Ginsberg and Timothy Leary.

Davis was known for being even-tempered and a relentless organizer, but he combined his seriousness of purpose with charisma and an infectious optimism. While he's portrayed in the 2020 Aaron Sorkin film "The Trial of the Chicago 7" as a nerd who "couldn't sell water to a thirsty man in the desert," as his fellow 1960s activist Frank Joyce put it to me, Davis was actually one of the antiwar movement's most captivating speakers.

Davis would need those skills in Berkeley, where he had come to deliver a stunning message: Activism, he now believed, had failed to fix a broken country. The new solution — to war, poverty, racism — was spiritual enlightenment. "I'm really blissed out with a capital 'B,'" Davis told the crowd. "We are operating under a new leadership, and it is divine. It's literally going to transform this planet into what we've always hoped and dreamed for."

The "new leadership" had an unlikely frontman: a car-obsessed 15-year-old Indian named Guru Maharaj Ji, dubbed the "perfect master." (Writers and activists who struggled to understand his appeal preferred to call him other things, including "the fat kid" and "the paunchy preadolescent mystical magnate.") Maharaj Ji, who now goes by Prem Rawat, was one of countless gurus who gained popularity in the West at the time; the teenager's organization, called Divine Light Mission, had an estimated 50,000 followers along with hundreds of centers and ashrams across the United States. Acting as both devotee and spokesman, Davis insisted Maharaj Ji would bring peace to the world. "God is now on this planet," he announced during a radio interview.

Davis's message was catnip to Maharaj Ji's followers in Berkeley, who danced and placed Easter lilies next to a picture of the boy on a linen-draped altar. But then came the catcalls. "We kept you out of jail, we came to Chicago, and now what are you doing to us?" someone yelled at Davis. "Kiss my lotus ass," another sneered. Activists with "fury bleeding out of every wound," as one writer put it then, hurled tomatoes at their former idol. A homeless man — or prophet, one couldn't be sure — interrupted Davis with cheeky Buddhist riddles.