Joe Biden's inauguration: Which celebrities are performing, where and how to watch

Lady Gaga, Jennifer Lopez, Garth Brooks, Justin Timberlake, Jon Bon Jovi, Lin-Manuel Miranda, Leslie Jones, Eva Longoria and Tom Hanks are among the stars tapped to appear during Joe Biden's inauguration festivities this week, the Presidential Inaugural Committee has announced.

Biden will be inaugurated at noon ET on Wednesday, becoming the 46th president of the United States. Most of the events surrounding the swearing-in will be virtually focused, in part due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, as well as fresh security concerns following a pro-Trump mob breaching the Capitol last week.

"This inauguration presents a unique opportunity to spotlight the resilience and spirit of an America united," PIC CEO Tony Allen said in a statement. "We have witnessed countless heroes this past year step up to the frontlines and serve their fellow Americans, so we are telling their stories, spreading their collective light and celebrating the best of our country and its people with this prime-time program."

All events are scheduled to be live-streamed on the Biden inauguration website. Some, where noted, will also be picked up on television broadcasts and social media platforms.

Continue scrolling for a rundown of Wednesday's star-studded events leading up to and following Biden's inauguration.

Garth Brooks says performing at the inauguration is not political Country music stars Garth Brooks and Tim McGraw are the latest entertainers to be announced for Wednesday's inauguration festivities. Entertain This!, USA TODAY

More on Biden's inauguration day: What will look different, who will attend, and what will go virtual

Inaugural Ceremonies performances

The committee has also announced the Inauguration Day ceremony lineup, which features Garth Brooks, Lady Gaga and Jennifer Lopez.

"The message they're pushing is unity, and that's right down my alley, man," Brooks said Monday in a news conference. "if we're gonna get anywhere, we're gonna get there together."

Gaga, who is pegged to perform "The Star-Spangled Banner," has previous experience with the national anthem, singing (and nailing) it for Super Bowl 50 in 2016.

At the swearing-in ceremony, the Rev. Leo O'Donovan, a former Georgetown University president, will give the invocation, and the Pledge of Allegiance will be led by Andrea Hall, a firefighter from Georgia. There will be a poetry reading from Amanda Gorman, the first national youth poet laureate, and the benediction will be given by the Rev. Silvester Beaman of Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Wilmington, Delaware.

When: Wednesday, time TBD

Where to watch: In addition to the Biden Inaugural website and PIC social media channels, the event will be available all major networks and social media platforms, plus Amazon Prime Video, Microsoft Bing, NewsNOW from Fox, and AT&T U-verse (Channel 212/1212 in SD/HD) and DIRECTV (Channel 201).

Virtual Parade Across America

A virtual "Parade Across America" will take place following Biden's swearing-in and visit to Arlington National Cemetery, and includes performers and other representatives from all 50 states and several U.S. territories.