Pipeline hack, local terminal's failure leads to gas shortage in Pensacola

PENSACOLA, Fla. -- State agencies and area gas stations say Monday that a local terminal failing to meet certain standards is partly to blame for the gas shortage in the Pensacola area.

Channel 3 observed bags covering fuel pumps at gas stations across the Pensacola area on Monday. Several viewers have called in and reported struggles finding gas.

Those stations who had gas -- like the Walmart on Mobile Highway -- had long lines of cars waiting to fuel up.

Colonial Pipeline was forced to shut down Friday after a ransomware attack. AAA says most of Florida's gas is shipped in, so the pipeline shutdown most likely won't affect local supplies. But it could still drive up prices.

However, the Florida Department of Agriculture said Monday afternoon that the Colonial Pipeline hack is one reason for the gas shortage, while a truck driver shortage is another.

The agency added that the Pensacola fuel terminal is also to blame, saying the company didn't meet EPA standards required by May 1.

"FDACS was recently alerted to a potential disruption in the fuel supply impacting the Pensacola region," Nikki Fried says in a release. "This specific disruption is due to a company servicing that area that is unable to meet EPA standards on federal gasoline requirements under the Clean Air Act, which must be met annually by May 1. Given the federal regulation of this issue, FDACS immediately contacted the EPA to ensure situational awareness and facilitate direct communication with industry operators. We continue to encourage the company to quickly resolve this issue and mitigate any impact on the community and residents."

Channel 3 reached out to the EPA, which said they were working to find more information.

The message from gas stations and the state: don't panic buy, form long lines or hoard gas.

For some drivers, the impact goes beyond inconvenience.

"It's kind of scary when it's raining because I don't want to be stuck on the side of the road with my daughter with no gas," Pensacola resident Tieisha Brown said. "So this is my second attempt and I'm slowly but surely running low on gas trying to find a gas station."