Biden and Harris appeal for hope, ask Americans to 'see beyond crises' on Inauguration Day 2021

President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris addressed the nation Wednesday after their historic inauguration, making an appeal for hope and unity, and asking weary Americans to "see beyond crises."

Following the inauguration ceremony Wednesday afternoon, actor Tom Hanks hosted a prime-time televised event celebrating America's 46th president and the nation's first-ever female vice president, Kamala Harris.

The event opened with a performance by folk legend musician Bruce Springsteen. The inaugural special, titled "Celebrating America," echoed Biden's calls for unity amid a difficult time in the nation's history.

Biden gave brief remarks during the special, repeating calls for Americans to come together and heal. He gave thanks to Americans and pressed the importance of democracy.

"As I said earlier today, we have learned again that democracy is precious and because of you democracy has prevailed," Biden said.

"That's why Jill and I, Kamala and Doug wanted to make sure our inauguration was not about us, but you, the American people," Biden said. "To overcome the challenges in front of us requires the most elusive of all things in a democracy: unity."

Harris talked about the power of "American aspiration" in her first speech to the nation as vice president.

With the Washington Monument lit up behind her Wednesday night, Harris called on Americans to remember "we are undaunted in our belief that we shall overcome, that we will rise up."

She also cast her ascension as the first female vice president as a demonstration of the nation's character.

Borrowing a line she frequently used on the campaign trail, she said, "We not only see what has been — we see what can be."

Harris gave a nod to American scientists, parents and teachers who are persevering through the coronavirus pandemic and encouraged people to "see beyond crises."

Earlier that day during his inauguration, Biden declared, "democracy has prevailed" at the same location that had been attacked by a pro-Trump mob just two weeks earlier.

Joined by first lady Jill Biden and family, Biden entered the White House for the first time as president to begin the work of a new administration and confront a historic confluence of crises.