The Worst Hacks of 2021

If 2020 was the year of pandemic lockdown hacking, 2021 was open season for attackers around the world. Ransomware gangs were shockingly aggressive, targeting health care facilities, schools, and critical infrastructure at an alarming rate. And hackers continued to launch supply chain attacks with extensive fallout. With the pandemic still raging in the background, system administrators, incident responders, global law enforcement, and security practitioners of all sorts worked tirelessly to counter the barrage. And governments scrambled to take more concrete action against online threats.

For now, though, the seemingly endless cat-and-mouse game continues. As John Scott-Railton, senior researcher at University of Toronto's Citizen Lab, puts it, "2021 is the year where we're realizing that the problems we chose not to solve years or decades ago are one by one coming back to haunt us."

Here's WIRED's retrospective on the year's worst breaches, leaks, data exposures, ransomware attacks, state-sponsored hacking campaigns, and digital mayhem. With no sign of a reprieve in 2022, watch your back and stay safe out there.

In early May, ransomware hit Colonial Pipeline, which operates a 5,500-mile pipeline that carries nearly half of the East Coast's fuel—gasoline, diesel, and natural gas—from Texas all the way to New Jersey. As a result of the attack, the company shut down portions of the pipeline both to contain the malware and because the attack knocked its billing systems offline. As lines grew at gas stations through the southeastern US, the Department of Transportation released an emergency order to allow expanded fuel distribution by truck. The FBI also named the notorious Russia-linked ransomware gang DarkSide as the perpetrator of the attack.

Colonial Pipelines paid a 75 bitcoin ransom—worth more than $4 million at the time—in an attempt to resolve the incident. Law enforcement was later able to recover some of the funds, and DarkSide went underground to avoid scrutiny. In November, the State Department announced a $10 million bounty for substantive information about the group's ringleaders. The attack was one of the largest-ever disruptions of US critical infrastructure by hackers, and was part of a series of alarming hacks in 2021 that finally seem to have served as a wakeup call for the US government and its allies about the need to comprehensively address and deter ransomware attacks.