KFF COVID-19 Vaccine Monitor: Winter 2021 Update On Parents' Views Of Vaccines For Kids

Key Findings

After an initial wave of eager parents got their teens vaccinated for COVID-19 in the spring and summer, vaccine uptake among 12-17 year-olds appears to have slowed, with about half of parents saying their teen has gotten at least one dose as of November (before news of the omicron variant), essentially unchanged over the past two months. Enthusiasm is somewhat lower among parents of children ages 5-11 who became eligible for vaccination more recently, with 16% saying their younger child has gotten at least one vaccine dose and another 13% saying they plan to get them vaccinated "right away." Three in ten parents of both teens and younger children say they will "definitely not" get their child vaccinated for COVID-19. The latest KFF COVID-19 Vaccine Monitor survey of parents was conducted prior to the emergence of the omicron COVID-19 variant, and we will continue to track parents' attitudes and intentions as more information emerges on the potential impact of this new variant on children.

Safety and potential side effects continue to be prominent concerns when it comes to parents' views of COVID-19 vaccines for kids. While about six in ten parents (63%) say they are confident that the COVID-19 vaccines are safe for adults, fewer say they are confident the vaccines are safe for children between the ages of 12 and 17 (52%) and for children ages 5 to 11 (43%). Most parents say getting infected with COVID-19 would be a bigger risk to their child's health than getting vaccinated. However, majorities of unvaccinated parents and Republican parents believe the vaccine poses a greater risk than the virus itself, even though scientific bodies have concluded the opposite is the case.

Access barriers are also a concern for some parents when it comes to getting their children vaccinated. Hispanic parents, Black parents, and those with lower incomes are more likely than other parents to say they are concerned they might have to miss work to get their child vaccinated, that they won't have a trusted place to go, or that they'll have difficulty traveling to a vaccination location.

Pediatricians remain parents' most trusted source of information on the COVID-19 vaccine for children, including across partisans and across race and ethnicity. Still, fewer than half of parents of children ages 5 to 17 have talked with their child's pediatrician or health care provider about the vaccine. Notably, not all pediatricians are recommending that parents get their children vaccinated for COVID-19; among the 40% of parents who spoke with their child's health care provider, one-third (16% total parents of teens) say the provider did not recommend the COVID-19 vaccine for their teen and four in ten (15% of total parents of 5-11 year-olds) say the doctor did not recommend it for their child ages 5-11.

About half of parents of school-age children say their child's school provided information about how to get their child vaccinated for COVID-19, and more than four in ten say their child's school encouraged parents to get their children vaccinated. Parents who say their school has encouraged them to get their children vaccinated are more likely to say their child has indeed gotten vaccinated. In fact, parents of 5-11 year-olds whose school encouraged vaccination are four times as likely as those whose school did not encourage vaccination to say their younger child has already gotten the COVID-19 vaccine (28% vs. 7%). While previous KFF Vaccine Monitor reports have shown that a majority of the public supports COVID-19 vaccination requirements for K-12 school teachers, parents oppose schools requiring COVID-19 vaccines for eligible students by a 2-to-1 margin.

Parents and families have been particularly hard-hit by the COVID-19 pandemic with nearly three in four of parents (73%) saying the pandemic has had a negative impact on their children's education, almost six in ten (58%) saying it has negatively impacted their own mental health, and half reporting a negative impact on their ability to pay for basic necessities (50%). The share reporting a negative financial impact is substantially higher among lower-income parents compared to those with higher incomes and among Black and Hispanic parents compared to White parents. In addition, mothers are more likely than fathers to say the pandemic has taken a toll on their financial situation as well as their mental and physical health.