6 myths about the COVID-19 vaccines — debunked

By March 1, approximately 50 million U.S. residents had received at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine. With the pace of vaccinations likely to accelerate rapidly in the coming weeks — Pfizer and Moderna, the makers of the two currently approved mRNA vaccines, have each promised to deliver 100 million doses by the end of March, with Johnson & Johnson providing an additional 20 million — many more U.S. residents will suddenly have access to a vaccine.

That's good news, except for the fact that recent polls show a distressing number of people are still uncertain about whether they will get vaccinated when it's their turn. A Kaiser Family Foundation poll in late February found that 44% of U.S. adults are still on the fence or unlikely to be vaccinated: 22% said they wanted to wait and see how the vaccines are working, 7% would get a vaccine only if it was required of them, and 15% said they definitely would not get vaccinated.

That could translate into a protracted recovery for the country, as most experts estimate that 80% to 85% of the population needs to have some level of immunity for the pandemic to end.

Vaccine hesitancy has many causes, not least among them distrust of the medical establishment — particularly among Black and Latinx communities — and concern about the rapid development of the vaccines.

In recent weeks, though, mixed messaging about the safety and efficacy of the vaccines — whether they work, whether they protect against the new coronavirus variants, whether we can ever stop masking and social distancing — has many experts concerned that even more people will opt out.

"I'm concerned that there are some broad statements about the vaccines that are informing the dialogue that aren't true that are making people really worried," says Monica Gandhi, MD, MPH, professor of medicine and associate division chief of the Division of HIV, Infectious Diseases, and Global Medicine at the University of California San Francisco at Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital and Trauma Center.

We spoke with Gandhi and several other prominent academic experts about some common myths — and facts — about the vaccines.

Myth #1: The vaccines are dangerous.