FACT SHEET: President Biden's Global COVID-19 Summit: Ending the Pandemic and Building Back Better

Today, President Biden convened heads of state and leaders from international organizations, the private sector, philanthropies, non-government organizations, and other partners for the Global COVID-19 Summit: Ending the Pandemic and Building Back Better, a virtual summit on the margins of the UN General Assembly.

The President called on leaders to elevate global ambition to end the COVID-19 pandemic in 2022 and to build back better global health security to prevent and prepare for future pandemics. As emerging variants have set back global response efforts, President Biden challenged the world to advance this agenda with new, focused urgency and to cooperate to rapidly advance our collective response to this crisis to secure our future.

Conquering COVID-19: Measuring Progress, Collective Action, Common Targets

Throughout the Summit, world leaders answered the President's call and embraced a set of ambitious global targets across four themes:

Vaccinate the World by enhancing equitable access to vaccines and getting shots in arms;

by enhancing equitable access to vaccines and getting shots in arms; Save Lives Now by solving the oxygen crisis and making tests, therapeutics, and personal protective equipment (PPE) widely available;

by solving the oxygen crisis and making tests, therapeutics, and personal protective equipment (PPE) widely available; Build Back Better by preparing in all countries, establishing a sustainable health security financing mechanism, and demonstrating political leadership for emerging threats to prepare for and prevent future pandemics; and

by preparing in all countries, establishing a sustainable health security financing mechanism, and demonstrating political leadership for emerging threats to prepare for and prevent future pandemics; and Calling the World to Account by aligning around common global targets, tracking progress, and supporting one another in fulfilling our commitments.

The full set of targets is available here.

New U.S. Commitments toward Ending the Pandemic and Building Back Better

President Biden has prioritized ending the COVID-19 pandemic since day one, when he launched the National Strategy on COVID-19 Response and Pandemic Preparedness and took critical steps to elevate pandemic preparedness and response as a top national security priority. The United States has donated more vaccines than all other countries combined, and earlier this year, launched a comprehensive U.S. COVID-19 Global Response and Recovery Framework.

The United States is leading the way toward ending the pandemic. During his remarks, the President called the world to action and announced several bold new U.S. commitments to accelerate progress toward these targets, including:

Vaccinating the World

Donate an Additional Half-Billion Pfizer COVID-19 Vaccines to the World: Today, President Biden will announce that the U.S. is donating an additional half a billion Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccines to low and lower-middle income countries around the globe, with shipments starting in January 2022. This monumental commitment brings the total number of vaccines donated by the U.S. to over 1.1 billion doses, including the 500 million Pfizer-BioNTech doses the U.S. already purchased in June and began shipping in August. With today's announcement, the U.S. is donating three doses to the world for every one shot it has administered at home. To date, the U.S. has already shipped nearly 160 million doses to 100 countries – donating more vaccines than all other countries combined – for free and with zero strings attached, with millions more shipping each day.