Illinois man allegedly threatened to 'kill Democrats' at Biden inauguration

An Illinois man was arrested on Tuesday after allegedly threatening to kill Democrats during President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration in Washington D.C. next week, federal prosecutors said.

Louis Capriotti, 45, is accused of making the threat in a Dec. 29 voicemail to a US House member from New Jersey, according to a criminal complaint filed in US District Court in Chicago.

He allegedly stated that if certain individuals "think that Joe Biden is going to put his hand on the Bible and walk into that f—ing White House on January 20th, they're sadly f—ing mistaken."

"We will surround the motherf—ing White House and we will kill any motherf—ing Democrat that steps on the motherf—ing lawn."

Capriotti, of Chicago Heights, a suburb of the Windy City, allegedly has a history of leaving "disturbing, anonymous messages" to members of Congress, the complaint states.

Nearly all the voicemails "included profanity, along with derogatory remarks concerning the race, religion, political affiliation, or physical appearance of certain members and others."

Capriotti was charged with transmitting a threat in interstate commerce. A judge ordered him held in custody at least until a detention hearing Friday, The Chicago Sun-Times reported.

He faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison if convicted.

"Our office takes the security of our public servants very seriously," US Attorney John R. Lausch Jr. said in a statement.

"Individuals who cross the line of free speech by making unlawful threats will be held accountable."

Capriotti's arrest comes less than a week after a mob of President Trump's supporters stormed the US Capitol as Congress began formally counting the Electoral College votes to certify Biden's win. Five people died in the riot.

Authorities have expressed concern about more violence erupting in the leadup to and during Biden's inauguration and Trump on Monday approved an emergency declaration to boost security in the nation's capital.

An FBI memo reportedly warned that armed protests are expected at all 50 state capitols plus DC, from this week through Inauguration Day.