Covid-19 overtakes 1918 Spanish flu as deadliest disease in American history

Volunteer nurses from the American Red Cross tend to influenza patients in the Oakland Municipal Auditorium, used as a temporary hospital in 1918.

The Covid-19 pandemic has become the deadliest disease event in American history, with a death toll surpassing that of the 1918 Spanish flu.

The Spanish flu was previously the disease event that caused the biggest loss of life in the United States; the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimate that 675,000 Americans died during the 1918 pandemic, in waves of illness that stretched out over roughly two years in this country.

According to STAT's Covid-19 Tracker, Covid deaths stand at more than 675,400.

"In terms of raw numbers of deaths, that's a high number," said Howard Markel, director of the Center for the History of Medicine at the University of Michigan School of Public Health. "And it's higher still than it should have been, frankly."

U.S. deaths make up roughly 14% of the nearly 4.7 million fatalities that have been reported worldwide in this pandemic to date, even though the country's population comprises only about 4.2% of the global population.

"In the U.S., we are among the worst affected in our class of countries — rich countries with an aging population. But other countries in Europe did poorly as well," said Cécile Viboud, an infectious diseases epidemiologist who has done a lot of research into deaths from the 1918 flu.

Whether the Covid pandemic will qualify as the deadliest event in U.S. history is perhaps a question for Civil War historians. The long-accepted toll of the War Between the States was 620,000, which this pandemic has already surpassed. But in 2011, David Hacker, a historian at Binghamton University in New York State, published an article in the journal Civil War History arguing the true number of deaths in the Civil War was more likely around 750,000.

The heavy toll the pandemic has taken in the U.S. is due to the country's inadequate response early on, said Markel. David Morens, a medical historian at the National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, agreed.

"I think it's generally known around the world that America didn't do a very good job in the early stages of controlling the pandemic," said Morens, who has also written extensively on the 1918 flu pandemic.

Comparing events that happened more than a century apart has its perils. For instance, the population of the United States in 1918 was a third of what it is now. So as a percentage of the national population, the Spanish flu deaths still has the lead on Covid-19.

Likewise, the mean age of the people who died in 1918 was 28, whereas with Covid, deaths are occurring mainly in the elderly, said Viboud, who works at the National Institutes of Health's Fogerty International Center. In terms of cumulative years of life lost, the Spanish flu's impact thus remains greater.

But modern medicine is far more advanced than what was available in 1918. Now people whose lungs are under attack from Covid can be put on ventilators or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation — ECMO — machines, which pump oxygen into blood when a person's heart and lungs are no longer up to the job. These were not options in 1918.

And for months now, the country has had vaccines that are highly effective at lowering the risk of dying from Covid. Still the fatalities pile up, though at a slower rate than earlier in the pandemic.