Highlights from Joe Biden's 2021 inauguration

Washington CNN — President Joe Biden's inauguration on Wednesday looked a bit different from past ceremonies ushering in a new administration.

The day's historic events navigated heightened security measures in Washington, DC, Covid-19 precautions and the absence of the outgoing President, the first time that's happened in more than a century and a half.

Still, the unprecedented day closed with fireworks and messages of unity and hope.

Here are the highlights from the inauguration of America's 46th president:

Trump leaves the White House

Though former President Donald Trump did not attend Biden's swearing-in ceremony, he was publicly seen several times, including when he left the White House as president for the last time shortly after 8 a.m. ET.

Before boarding Marine One with the former first lady, Trump told reporters at the White House it was a "great honor" to serve as 45th President of the United States before saying goodbye.

Trump speaks at Joint Base Andrews before heading to Florida

Trump also held a final farewell ceremony, where both he and former first lady Melania Trump delivered remarks.

The former President thanked his family and chief of staff, and promised to "always fight." He also wished the incoming Biden administration "great luck," though he didn't mention his successor by name.

Melania Trump, meanwhile, told attendees that "being your first lady was my greatest honor." The two then boarded Air Force One for the last time just before 9 a.m., taking the presidential plane to their Florida home.

Biden attends church

Just after the Trumps boarded Air Force One, Biden and first lady Jill Biden headed over to Cathedral of St. Matthew the Apostle in DC, where they attended mass with their family, Vice President Kamala Harris and her family. They were joined by the congressional leaders of both parties.

Incoming presidents typically attend services on the morning of their inauguration, often at St. John's Episcopal Church, a small church across Lafayette Square from the White House known as "The Church of the Presidents."

Biden arrives at Capitol

Biden arrived at the US Capitol shortly after 11 a.m. and Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, accompanied him and Jill Biden up the steps of the iconic building.

When Biden arrived at the inauguration stage, he greeted his predecessor and former boss, former President Barack Obama, on his way to his seat. He received a lengthy ovation from those gathered on the stage and sat down at 11:19 a.m.

Harris and Obama first bump

As she walked to her seat on the inaugural stage, Harris shared double fist bumps with Obama.

The gesture, exchanged shortly before Harris was sworn in as vice president, carried symbolic weight as Obama and Harris made history as the first African Americans to serve as president and vice president, respectively.

Harris similarly fist bumped Michelle Obama, who made history as the country's first African American first lady.

Harris is sworn in as vice president

Harris took the oath of office at 11:42 a.m. She used two Bibles during the oath, which was administered by Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor.

Harris officially became the first female, first Black and first South Asian vice president at noon.

Biden is sworn in as the 46th president

Biden completed his oath of office at 11:48 a.m., using a treasured family Bible that dates to the 19th century and was held by Jill Biden. The oath was administered by Chief Justice John Roberts.