FACT SHEET: 300 Million Shots in 150 Days: The President's COVID-19 Strategy is Delivering for Americans

When President Biden took office 150 days ago, more than 3,300 Americans were dying each day, more than 185,000 Americans were infected with COVID-19 cases a day, and the economy had lost millions of jobs.

Today, thanks to the President's COVID-19 strategy, the virus is in retreat. 300 million shots have been administered in 150 days, COVID-19 cases and deaths have decreased by more than 90 percent, and the economy is experiencing the strongest rebound in decades.

This did not happen by accident. The President committed to the American people that he would confront this unprecedented challenge with the full strength and capabilities of the federal government. Each day since taking office, the President has done just that – mobilizing a whole-of-government, wartime effort to defeat COVID-19. And, he has brought all Americans, including public and private sector leaders, together and asked them to do their part.

The results are clear: America is starting to look like America again, and entering a summer of joy and freedom.

300 Million Shots in 150 Days

When President Biden took office, about 5% of adult Americans had gotten vaccinated. At the pace the U.S. was vaccinating in January, it would have taken 336 days to get to 300 million shots in arms. And, inadequate vaccine supply, vaccinators, and places to get vaccinated severely limited Americans' access to vaccines.

Thanks to the Biden Administration's whole-of-government effort to stand up a first-of-its-kind, best-in-class nationwide vaccination program, today, more than 175 million Americans have gotten at least one COVID-19 vaccine shot.

65% of adult Americans have at least one shot, and 55% of adults are fully vaccinated.

87% of seniors and 74% of adults age 40 and over have at least one shot.

15 states and Washington, D.C., have gotten at least 70% of adults one shot.

26 states and D.C. have fully vaccinated 50% or more of adults.

Importantly, this progress on vaccinations has brought COVID-19 cases, hospitalizations and deaths down to their lowest levels since the start of the pandemic last year. It's curbed the spread of the virus, saved tens of thousands of lives, and allowed tens of millions of Americans to get back to living their life.

This is a direct result of the Biden Administration's whole-of-government, wartime effort that focused on:

Securing enough supply for all Americans and getting it out the door as quickly as possible. When President Biden took office, there was not enough vaccine supply for all Americans, and states were not getting the supply allocation and delivery timeline information they requested and needed to be successful. Thanks to the President's aggressive actions, the Biden Administration secured enough supply for all Americans, dramatically increased supply to states, and gave states more visibility into allocation numbers to allow for better planning to get shots into arms much faster. This allowed the President to make all adults eligible for vaccination in mid-April – months ahead of expectations – and has positioned the U.S. to help lead the global efforts to vaccinate the world.