A Cargo Ship Drew a Giant Dick Pic in the Ocean Then Got Stuck in the Suez Canal

The Suez Canal has been blocked and a big backlog of ships is building up The Suez Canal has been blocked and a big backlog of ships is building up after a huge container ship ran aground during bad weather.

At least eight tug boats and a digger are working to dislodge and refloat the 400m long and 59m wide Ever Given. At least eight tug boats and a digger are working to dislodge and refloat the 400m long and 59m wide Ever Given.

The container ship, registered in Panama and operated by Taiwanese shipping company Evergreen Marine, became stuck yesterday morning, and attempts to shift it and get traffic flowing again have so far failed. The container ship, registered in Panama and operated by Taiwanese shipping company Evergreen Marine, became stuck yesterday morning, and attempts to shift it and get traffic flowing again have so far failed.

"Ship in front of us ran aground while going through the canal is now stuck sideways, looks like we might be here for a little bit," wrote Julianne Cona on Instagram. "Ship in front of us ran aground while going through the canal is now stuck sideways, looks like we might be here for a little bit," wrote Julianne Cona on Instagram.

It's now emerged that the Ever Given's journey was even more cursed than we first thought, as just before getting lodged in the canal, it charted a course that, well, just look at it. It's now emerged that the Ever Given's journey was even more cursed than we first thought, as just before getting lodged in the canal, it charted a course that, well, just look at it.

Tracking data from Tracking data from vesselfinder.com and myshiptracking.com websites clearly shows what resembles a giant dick pic, and arguably a pair of ass cheeks too, slap bang in the Red Sea – if that isn't an omen then what is.

A spokesperson for vesselfinder.com confirmed the ship tracking data was accurate. "There is no room for some kind of conspiracies or false data," Mihail Mitev told VICE World News over email. A spokesperson for vesselfinder.com confirmed the ship tracking data was accurate. "There is no room for some kind of conspiracies or false data," Mihail Mitev told VICE World News over email.