How did Evergreen's ship get stuck in the Suez Canal and create the world's heaviest traffic jam?

The skyscraper-size ship blocking the Suez Canal was freed today, five days after wedging itself sideways into the banks of one of the world's busiest waterways.

The 1,312-foot, 220,000 ton Ever Given, nearly a quarter-mile long, created a shipper's nightmare and captured the public's imagination when it blocked the canal on March 23. It created a traffic jam of more than 360 ships as of Sunday and is costing billions in delayed shipments.

Teams of dredgers and tugboats were able to free the ship's stern on Sunday, moving 330 feet from the western bank. The bow was pulled loose today.

Workers were aided by high tides helped by a full moon. The full moon offers a spring tide, or king tide, in which high tides are higher and the low tides are lower because of the effects of gravity during a straight-line alignment of the Earth, the moon and the sun, USA TODAY reported.

Tugboats are pulling the Ever Given to the canal's Great Bitter Lake, where it will be inspected.

How did it happen?

The Ever Given was stuck near the Egyptian city of Suez, about 3.7 miles north of the canal's southern entrance. It was in a single-lane section of the canal, about 985 feet wide.

Its owners originally said high winds in a sandstorm pushed the ship sideways, wedging it into both banks of the waterway. Containers stacked on deck may have acted as a sail.

However, the chairman of Egypt's Suez Canal Authority said Saturday, without giving details, that weather conditions "were not the main reasons" for the grounding, and that "there may have been technical or human reasons," the BBC reported. An investigation is ongoing.

How many ships are waiting?

At least 360 ships, carrying everything from cars to oil to grain, wait at the canal's northern and southern entrances. The AP said an analysis by data firm Refinitiv showed an additional 300 ships were en route to the canal over the next two weeks. Some ships have already diverted to the African route.

CNN said the U.S. Navy offered dredging experts to assist.

Authorities originally disagree on how long the canal will be blocked. The ship's owner, Shoei Kisen, said its goal was to free the vessel by the night of March 27.

An Egyptian presidential adviser told Agence France Presse on March 26 that traffic would resume within 48 to 72 hours. However, the CEO of a dredging company has said the operation could take weeks.

The uncertainty has forced some shippers to alter course and take the longer, alternate route around the Cape of Good Hope in Africa, adding weeks to their destinations and increasing fears of piracy. Some have contacted the U.S. Navy about increased security.

Officials were under great pressure to remove the ship.

The canal is a 120-mile-long shipping link between the Mediterranean and Red seas that carries 10% to 12% of commercial shipping and about 2.5% of the world's oil. A German insurer said delays could cost global trade $6 billion to $10 billion a week, Reuters reported.

USA TODAY said the blockage could worsen shipping delays and cause shortages of toilet paper, coffee and other goods.

GlobalSecurity.org calls the canal "strategically and economically one of the most important waterways in the world."

Who owns the canal?

The Suez Canal is operated by Egypt, through its state-owned Suez Canal Authority. Canal revenue for Egypt was $5.6 billion in 2020, according to Arab News. On average, about 50 ships pass through the canal daily.

The canal took 10 years to build and opened in 1869. It's a sea-level canal, without locks, connecting major bodies of water at different altitudes. It normally takes a ship 13 to 15 hours to cross from one end to the other. It's been widened over the years, with the latest project in 2015 at a cost of $8 billion.

The Panama-flagged Ever Given was built in 2018 and is operated by Evergreen Marine of Taiwan. It can carry 20,000 20-foot containers, according to Reuters, and transports cargo between Asia and Europe. It has a crew of 25.

The 1,312-foot ship is often compared to the Empire State Building, which is 1,454 feet tall, including its spire and antenna.