QAnon's Suez Canal Dick Ship Conspiracies Are Getting Wilder and Wilder

Unraveling viral disinformation and explaining where it came from, the harm it's causing, and what we should do about it. See More →

Within minutes of the Within minutes of the Ever Given ship getting stuck in Egypt's Suez Canal on Wednesday, an incident that's created chaos in global supply chains, QAnon supporters were spreading wild conspiracies that the ship was operated by Hillary Clinton and carrying a cargo of child sex slaves.

The claims were based on the fact that the Taiwanese shipping company that operates the ship is called Evergreen, which was Clinton's secret service name when she was first lady. The claims were based on the fact that the Taiwanese shipping company that operates the ship is called Evergreen, which was Clinton's secret service name when she was first lady.

The baseless theory was given further credence — in the minds of QAnon followers at least — when it emerged that the ship's call sign was "H3RC" which is close enough to Clinton's own initials (HRC) for QAnon followers to make the link. The baseless theory was given further credence — in the minds of QAnon followers at least — when it emerged that the ship's call sign was "H3RC" which is close enough to Clinton's own initials (HRC) for QAnon followers to make the link.

The theory quickly spread on Telegram and Gab, the platforms QAnon followers have fled to in the wake of a purge by mainstream social networks in recent months. The theory quickly spread on Telegram and Gab, the platforms QAnon followers have fled to in the wake of a purge by mainstream social networks in recent months.

But the claims also made their way to Twitter and Facebook, where fact-checking group But the claims also made their way to Twitter and Facebook, where fact-checking group PolitiFact flagged and debunked them

"There is no evidence that an Evergreen ship stuck in the Suez Canal is linked to a human trafficking operation run by Hillary Clinton. That claim has been pushed by supporters of the baseless QAnon conspiracy theory," Daniel Funke, an expert in online misinformation at PolitiFact, wrote. "There is no evidence that an Evergreen ship stuck in the Suez Canal is linked to a human trafficking operation run by Hillary Clinton. That claim has been pushed by supporters of the baseless QAnon conspiracy theory," Daniel Funke, an expert in online misinformation at PolitiFact, wrote.