How To Recover From Suez Canal Debacle And Prevent Another Supply Chain Crisis

Now that the mega container ship that blocked the Suez Canal for several days has been freed, the recovery part of the crisis begins.

The blockage of the international waterway focused attention on the vulnerabilities of supply chains, the importance of having crisis management and contingency plans, and how similar crisis situations could be prevented or managed more effectively.

But before worrying about the next crisis, many business executives are focusing on bouncing back from this one.

Recovery Plan Template

How companies recover from a crisis is just as important as how they prepare and manage it. A detailed written recovery plan can serve as a roadmap that enables your organization to return to normal as fast as possible. It should include the following major provisions:

Goals and objectives that must be met in order to fully recover from the crisis

The specific tasks that have to be performed, and who will be responsible for them

A timeframe for recovery

The money, expertise, and other resources that will be needed

A list of those who should be notified or consulted about the progress in recovering from the crisis

The lessons learned from this crisis, and and how those lessons will be applied to the operations and policies of the organization to ensure the crisis is not repeated

Just as companies should test their crisis and contingency plans to ensure they work when needed, businesses should hold table top, simulations, and other exercises to stress-test their recovery plans ahead of time and on a regular basis.

Damage Already Done

It does not take long for a crisis to have a negative impact on companies and organizations.

Peter Deans is a risk and strategy consultant and founder of 52 Risks. He observed that, "For many companies, the damage [from the Suez Canal crisis] has already been done, with costly delays arising from delays in receiving supply inputs or finished goods, either directly or indirectly via their suppliers.

"These delays will have resulted in lost sales and/or additional supply costs and freight charges. It will be important to reach out to those customers that will be impacted in the coming months." He predicted that, "...supply chains will take at least several weeks if not months to return to normal."

Deep Understanding Needed

Deans noted, "These type of events highlight the need for companies [to] have a deep understanding of their supply chains, understand 'what can go wrong' and have contingency plans for these scenarios. This includes having the financial resources to see through these incidents. Scenario planning workshops can be helpful in thinking about the specific events that can impact a business' operations.

"As the Covid-19 pandemic has shown, it is critically important to have sufficient supplies of production inputs... to withstand any extended, external shocks and business disruptions," he counseled.

Limited Options

Depending on the nature of a crisis, there may not be too many alternatives on how to bounce back. In the aftermath of the Suez Canal crisis, the options may be very limited.

Mark Dohnalek is the president and CEO of Pivot International, a global manufacturing, engineering, technology, product development company. "For companies to recover as quickly as possible from the backlog of ships in the Suez, they will have no choice but to seek sourcing that uses transit routes outside of this area — either domestic or Asian," he said.