What the Ever Given Taught the World

On March 29, after six days being stuck in the Suez Canal and blocking all other ships from sailing through the vital passage, the Ever Given was unmoored. Excavation crews had worked around the clock to dig the enormous container ship out, and thanks to their work it was able to sail on. On July 7, the Ever Given left Egyptian waters—seaworthy but damaged. This Thursday, the ship is expected to leave a Chinese port where the damage it sustained in the Suez Canal has been repaired. And the mighty vessel's fate has crucial lessons for everyone who depends on shipping. That's every single one of us.

On March 29, after six days being stuck in the Suez Canal and blocking all other ships from sailing through the vital passage, the Ever Given was unmoored. Excavation crews had worked around the clock to dig the enormous container ship out, and thanks to their work it was able to sail on. On July 7, the Ever Given left Egyptian waters—seaworthy but damaged. This Thursday, the ship is expected to leave a Chinese port where the damage it sustained in the Suez Canal has been repaired. And the mighty vessel's fate has crucial lessons for everyone who depends on shipping. That's every single one of us.

For six days earlier this year, the world's eyes were on the Suez Canal when the Ever Given—a member of the class of so-called ultra-large container vessels (ULCVs)—got stuck in the narrow waterway. For those six intense days, rescue crews dug, drilled, and pulled while the world watched the spectacle with intense fascination. And the Ever Given's fate mattered far beyond cybergawkers' sudden interest in massive container ships in distress: It mattered because every day the Ever Given blocked the canal, dozens of ships carrying billions of dollars' worth of cargo had to wait to enter the waterway.

The resulting supply chain delays are still reverberating months after the incident. After finally being dislodged, the Ever Given was pulled by several tugboats to the adjoining Great Bitter Lake, where a new crew of Indian seafarers took over. The retrieval crew that arrived in the Great Bitter Lake was led by Capt. Hanse Kurisinkal, a highly experienced Indian officer who has worked on ULCVs pretty much since they entered the seas.

Global supply chain delays are still reverberating months after the ship got stuck in the Suez Canal.

Both Kurisinkal's crew and the crew they replaced were fortunate that the Ever Given has a reputable owner and a similarly reputable management company. In many other cases, crews of cargo ships stuck in ports or even offshore for various reasons are simply abandoned by the ship's owner. As I've previously reported in Foreign Policy, every year dozens of crews are left on their ships—without fuel, food, and even water—for months, sometimes even years, relying on charities and seafarer unions for their survival.

Until July, when Egyptian authorities and the Ever Given's insurer finally agreed on an undisclosed compensation payment for the rescue operation, the Ever Given and its new crew couldn't go anywhere. Their departure that day generated considerable press coverage—but since then, virtually nothing has been heard from the ill-fated ship. This is the story, based on exclusive interviews with industry insiders, of what happened next.