GSU Tiger Marching Band to perform as part of Biden inauguration festivities

GRAMBLING, La. (KNOE) - Grambling State University announced on Jan. 18 that their band is scheduled to perform as part of this week's inauguration festivities for President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris.

The World Famed Tiger Marching Band will take part in a virtual event entitled 'We Are One,' which is the newest addition to the inauguration schedule.

"Even in a pandemic, the World Famed will showcase its talent on a platform that will be seen across the globe," GSU President Rick Gallot said. "We are proud that they will be representing the institution for the inauguration of the first HBCU (Historically Black Colleges & Universities) graduate to serve as Vice President of the United States of America."

"I consider it a privilege and an honor to have received the call," said Director of Bands Dr. Nikole Roebuck. "We don't take this honor lightly."

This will not be the band's first time performing at a presidential inauguration. They performed at the inaugurations for President George W. Bush and President Barack Obama. Former President Bill Clinton has also traveled to GSU to perform with the band.

How to Watch:

The 'We Are One' event, including the Tiger Marching Band's performance, is scheduled for Jan. 19, 2021, at 7:00 p.m. CST.

The band will be featured in a Battle of the Bands segment. Grambling is one of the several groups featured in the segment. Other performances include the Florida A&M University Marching 100, Jackson State University Sonic Boom of the South, Louisiana Leadership Institute All-star Marching Band, South Carolina State University Marching 101, Southern University Human Jukebox Marching Band, and the Tennessee State University Aristocrat of Bands.

You can watch the performance here. You can also watch on Urban One, HBCU Grad, NowThis, Revolt TV, The Source, The Shade Room, BET, The Grio TV, Daily Kos, Watch The Yard, Blavity, and on NBC Peacock TV — on The Choice.