The Stuck Ship of the Suez Canal: Inside the Supply-Chain Snafu That Could Wreck Your Holiday Plans

The wind was coming from behind now and no longer pushing it into the bank. But still the ship veered from one side of the channel to the other. Each time he turned the wheel, the helmsman was able to bring the ship temporarily back toward the correct heading, but too-aggressive rudder commands caused it to overshoot the mark. Instead of settling down, the ship's swings were getting wilder.

At 7:38 a.m., as it approached the irrigated fruit-tree groves of the Al Ganayen district, the Ever Given veered toward the left bank, skimmed alongside it, then jerked hard to the right. The overcorrection was so severe that the bow swung toward the opposite bank like a harpoon. This time there was neither time nor room to undo the swerve. The bulb-shaped tip of Ever Given's bow plunged 50 feet deep into the mud and sand of the canal bank. Maintaining its momentum, the stern swung around toward the far bank until it, too, was firmly lodged.

Kanthavel's reaction: "Shit."

Half a mile behind, on the bridge of the container ship Maersk Denver, marine engineer Julianne Cona aimed her camera forward and snapped an image of the Ever Given's hull stretching from bank to bank. "From the looks of it," she wrote on Instagram, "that ship is super stuck."

Everyone wanted to know how it happened and who was to blame. It wasn't merely a craving for lurid details; understanding how accidents happen is essential to making sure they don't happen again. This is why around the world, transportation safety agencies carry out investigations and issue recommendations for rule changes. Egypt's, unfortunately, does not have a great track record. Accidents that occur under its purview tend to be enmeshed in intrigue and controversy. More than 1,000 of the 1,400 ferry passengers on the al-Salam Boccaccio 98 died when it sank in the Red Sea in 2006. The government initially blamed the captain, but a subsequent parliamentary investigation laid the blame on the ferry's owner, Mamdouh Ismail, a businessman and politician with close ties to then president Hosni Mubarak. Acquitted in a 2008 trial, he was later retried, convicted, and sentenced to seven years in prison, though he never served time, and the conviction was later erased.

With the Ever Given, the Egyptian government evinced no doubt as to who was responsible. Within hours, it declared, with no evidence, that the ship had run aground due to an engine failure. After it became clear that this was not true, Egypt asserted that the captain was to blame for sailing at such high speed. In response, the ship's insurers issued a statement pointing out that when a ship is traveling through the canal in a convoy its speed "is controlled by the Suez Canal pilots and SCA vessel traffic management services."

The pilot would get on board and the first thing he would do is ask for a couple of cartons of cigarettes. The electricians are going to want a carton. And the tugboats, if you need tugboats, they're going to want that carton. It just goes on and on.

Nevertheless, the canal authority filed a legal claim demanding $916.5 million from the ship's owners, citing, among other things, the cost of salvaging the boat and the damage to Egypt's international reputation. Maritime legal experts were skeptical about the basis for this claim. "They're obviously just sort of thinking up numbers," said Martin Davies, head of Tulane University's Maritime Law Center.