Widening Of Suez Canal Is Lesson On Preventing The Repeat Of A Crisis

The latest lesson for business leaders from the recent Suez Canal crisis is to learn from a crisis and immediately take steps to help prevent it from happening again. That's exactly what Suez Canal officials are doing in the aftermath of the giant container ship that blocked the international shipping lane for six days.

According to the Associated Press, Egypt "plans to widen and deepen the southern part of the Suez Canal where a hulking vessel ran aground and closed off the crucial waterway in March." Business Insider reported that, "In a televised address on Tuesday the head of the Suez Canal Authority (SCA), Osama Rabie, said an 18.6 mile stretch of the waterway would be widened by about 131 feet (40 meters) and deepened by 32 feet (10 meters) to improve the movement of ships in the area."

A Top Priority

When companies and organizations have recovered from a crisis, one of the first things they should do is to carefully review the cause of the crisis, then implement reforms or changes to help ensure the same situation is not repeated.

Starbucks apparently did the right thing in 2018 in the wake of a headline-making crisis. The manager of one of their cafes in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania had two black men arrested who were waiting for a colleague. A few weeks later, the company closed 8,000 restaurants in the U.S. for a day so that 175,000 employees could receive anti-bias training.

The U.S. Secret Service has been criticized over the years for the handling of their own crisis situations.

In a story yesterday on CBS's Sunday Morning, correspondent Jim Axelrod reported on the publication of Zero Fail: The Rise and Fall of the Secret Service. The book by Pulitzer Prize-winning Washington Post reporter Carol Leonnig is critical of the agency and how it has responded to its crises.

In response to a request for comment for this story, the agency said, "The U.S. Secret Service is aware of an upcoming book which re-hashes past challenges the agency overcame and evolved from. Now and throughout its 156 year history, the agency's skilled workforce is dedicated to the successful execution of its critical protective and investigative missions."

Among those interviewed in the CBS story was former Agent Jonathan Wackrow, who was with the Secret Service for 14 years where he served on the details protecting President and Mrs. Obama. Axelrod said Wackrow's experience, "... gives him insight into another problem plaguing the Secret Service that more money can't address: a culture lacking transparency and accountability."

According to a transcript of the story, "On November 11, 2011, a man fired a rifle at the White House, striking the building seven times. The Obamas weren't home, but their daughters were. Despite agents reporting gunfire, Leonnig writes they were told by superiors to stand down. Secret Service leadership initially told no one – not their agents, not the public, not even President and Mrs. Obama.

"Thankfully, [it] didn't have a tragic outcome. But afterwards? Nothing," said Wackrow. "There was no, 'Hey, let's get everybody together and let's review what happened.'"

"Axelrod asked, "But how could there not be?"

"The Secret Service is the best organization in the world in crisis management. Yet, they can't manage themselves," Wackrow replied. "It was an embarrassment, but you have to learn from it."

Secret Service Responds

In response to a request to comment on the CBS story, the Secret Service provided a link to a report by the National Academy of Public Administration. The agency said in a statement that, "The Academy Panel determined that the U.S. Secret Service has taken significant, wide-ranging, and important actions."

Substantial Changes Made

"Specifically, the agency has made a substantial number of organizational, policy, and process changes to transform the way it does business; professionalize administrative, technical, and management functions; and address numerous staffing and employee issues. Agency leadership has made these changes in a relatively short time, demonstrating a strong commitment to change."