Blocked Suez Canal could be 'catastrophic' & cause oil price spike after 'mega ship' is grounded by 'gust of wind'

A MASSIVE ship stuck in the Suez Canal could cause a "catastrophic" meltdown in world trade and a spike in oil prices.

The 200,000 ton mega-ship Ever Given is currently lying sideways in the canal after its owners said it was grounded by a "gust of wind".

The 1300ft long and 194ft-wide ship, which is as long as the Empire State building is tall, ran aground in the shipping channel just after 7.40am on Tuesday.

Tug boats managed to partially refloat it yesterday but experts fear "catastrophic" trade damage as a result.

Each day it is blocked, around 30 per cent of global container cargo traffic will be held up — sparking shortages and price hikes.

The ship's Taiwanese operator Evergreen Marine Co said the ship "accidentally ran aground after a suspected gust of wind hit it".

The blockage caused a pileup of at least 100 ships attempting to enter the narrow shipping channel, which divides continental Africa from the Sinai Peninsula in Northern Egypt.

'CATASTROPHIC'

Millions of barrels of oil are already stuck in ships waiting to enter the canal, and international benchmark Brent crude jumped nearly 2.9 per cent to $62.52.

Expert Sal Mercogliano said the effect on world trade, including vaccine supply, could be "catastrophic".

"Because of Covid, you know how badly things have slowed down with moving goods, and now all of a sudden you add this and you're going to have a delay getting goods to markets," he told BBC radio's Today programme.

"We're talking about vaccines, manufacturing goods, food, everything. It's potential catastrophic delays.

"Ten per cent of the world's trade goes through the Suez Canal and you average about 50 vessels a day and we're in the second day of not being able to move any vessels.

Suez Canal The Suez Canal is the quickest sea route between Asia and Europe and is one of the world's most heavily used shipping lanes. On average 50 vessels per day pass along the canal, although at times the number can be much higher. The canal is 120 miles long, 672ft wide and 78ft deep meaning it can handle the world's biggest ships, which take around 11 hours to pass through. Ships have been grounded in the canal before and in 2017 a Japanese ship became stuck but was re-floated within hours. The first canal was dug under the reign of Senausret III, Pharaoh of Egypt, who reigned from 1887-1849BC. A new artificial waterway was planned by French engineer Ferdinand de Lesseps, which took 10 years to complete and opened in November 1869. Egypt nationalised the canal in 1956, prompting an invasion by shareholders Britain and France along with Israel. The Suez Crisis ended only after Egypt sank 40 ships in the canal and the United States, Soviet Union and United Nations intervened, forcing Britain, France and Israel to withdraw. The state-owned Suez Canal Authority was established in July 1956 and runs the waterway. In 2015 Egypt extended the Suez Canal providing ships with a 22 mile channel parallel channel, allowing more vessels to use it.

"Shipping companies are going to have to make a decision fairly soon whether or not to route the vessels around Africa, which adds and additional 12-14 days."

Dr Mercogliano, a former merchant mariner and associate professor of history at North Carolinas Campbell University, said the situation of a ship blocking the entire canal has never been faced before.

"There have been groundings on the Suez Canal before but never one of a ship this size or so dramatic - literally shutting the whole canal down by crossing the entire width of the canal," he said.

He appeared to contradict the owner's explanation for the incident that a gust of wind blew vessel of course, saying loss of power was probably to blame.

"According to the ship's agent, the ship lost power," he said.

"They literally said ship went 'dark' and in that scenario they would not only propulsion but also the rudder controls and it appears the vessel veered to the right and went ashore on the eastern bank.

"And because of the length of the vessel, it's one of the largest ships in the world, she's an ultra large container vessel, she actually ran aground on the eastern bank. You can see part of her bow is out of the water."

He said that if they ship can't immediately be re-floated then a more complex operation will begin - but that's unlikely to be quick.

"If they can't get her off with tugs they will have to start removing fuel off her and then the containers," he said.

"But the difficulty with getting the containers off her is that she's so tall it would be very difficult to get the correct sized cranes in there to get those off."