Fact check: Facebook outage caused by human error, not a military raid

The claim: The military raided Facebook and took its servers

The recent six-hour outage on Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp left many users wondering what happened, some claiming it had been a hack. But one false theory, in particular, has gained traction online.

A Facebook post shared Oct. 4, the day of the outage, claims the military raided a Facebook facility and seized Facebook's servers.

"Hours later everything just comes back on but moving slow?" reads the text, which was shared more than 600 times in four days. "I have a guess. The military raided FB for the servers, took them, and left. When FB regained access to the facility they had to switch to the backup servers, which took a few hours to rebuild. Now we're seeing FB back online... but who's really in control over it now? Something a LOT BIGGER just happened today, people."

Similar versions of the post have also accumulated hundreds of shares and reactions in just a few days.

Facebook and the platforms the tech company owns, including WhatsApp and Instagram, stopped working around midday Eastern Time on Oct. 4 and were out of commission for users around the world until about 5:40 p.m. that same day. At that time, some users were able to access the platforms again, though some functions remained unavailable.

The outage was the worst the company has seen in years, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a post the day after.

However, the outage was not caused by a military raid. It was just human error, the company said.

Fact check: Viral video falsely claims to show a man fleeing from COVID-19 vaccination

Stephon Rudd, the Facebook user who posted the claim, told USA TODAY in a message that was his "guess" of what happened, but he "never once said it was a fact, although it could be." He offered no evidence to support his claim.

Outage caused by a technical error

The day after the outage, when the various social media platforms were back to normal, Facebook employees involved in the process of repairing the problem shined a light on what had happened.