Those stunning Inauguration Day fireworks behind Katy Perry? Thank a Chicago-founded company that 'wanted it big.'

The smash ending to a smash day in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday was Katy Perry singing "Firework" as, appropriately enough, fireworks went off around the Washington Monument behind her. Many, many fireworks.

That display, a stunning four minutes or so, was created by Strictly FX, a company founded in Chicago in 1996 that does most of its pyrotechnics business with touring rock shows and events like the Super Bowl. And it served as the finale to the "Celebrating America" prime-time television special devoted to President Joseph Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris on Inauguration Day.

The internet exploded afterward, mostly congratulating Perry for her performance. The fireworks were credited mostly as backdrop. That's fine with Adam Biscow and FX; Biscow is the designer that created the show, the guy who put the white burst directly behind Perry's outstretched hand just as she hit her final chorus and elicited a breathless "Oh yeah!" from host Tom Hanks as he signed off the show.

Speaking with the Tribune from the Washington Mall on Thursday, he said shows like Wednesday's are a team effort. Strictly FX, which moved its headquarters to Nashville in 2018 but maintains an office in Mount Prospect as well as California, created the show, with the shells fired by Garden State Fireworks of New Jersey, which holds the contract to do fireworks in the city and is a frequent collaborator.

"We don't do shows like this for the credit," Biscow said. "We do it for the love of what we do, it's little piece of history we got to take part in."

Strictly FX also did the show for Biden's victory speech in Wilmington, Delaware, in November that got attention for its use of drones, and Biscow said the president-elect came in and thanked the crew personally afterward.

In this image from video, singer Katy Perry performs during the "Celebrating America" event on Wednesday, following the inauguration of Joe Biden as the 46th president of the United States. (AP)

Biscow declined to give a dollar figure for the cost of Wednesday's show, but allowed that it used about 20,000 shells fired from two separate launch areas, one a chain of nine zones behind the monument itself, the other in West Potomac Park. The sky filled behind the Washington Monument was about 2,000 feet wide, choreographed to the song. At moments the sky was a riot of dripping silver — those streaming explosions are called brocade shells and are a favorite of his — and at others a wall of brilliant red, with the edges of the bursts just touching each other.