Americans Had It Easy During the Facebook Outage

Before WhatsApp went dark yesterday, the last messages I sent were to my editor in London, my doctor here in Mexico City, and to the family group chat, asking whether my father—recovering from COVID-19 back home in Pakistan—had finally tested negative. For me, WhatsApp is as much a verb as Google, and the platform is the engine that fuels my personal and professional lives. Sometimes, despite being thousands of miles away from my family, my WhatsApp groups seem like the rooms of my childhood house: Here is my mother in one corner, fretting over my father's cavalier attitude toward the pandemic; here is an uncle nobody likes, talking about some secret conspiracy against Islam; here are my cousins sending voice notes laced with laughter, virtually re-creating a summer sleepover; here is my grandmother, reminding me to pray.

For about five hours, as the Facebook empire—including Messenger, Instagram, and WhatsApp—experienced a global outage, that engine sputtered to a stop for me and billions of others. For lots of people in the U.S., the outage merely stopped them from posting food photos on Instagram and instigating mask arguments on Facebook. But it meant something else in the large swaths of the developing world. Here, WhatsApp is more than just "social media": It's a public utility.

I first downloaded the app when I moved away for college in 2008, six years before it was acquired by Facebook, for a whopping $19 billion. At the time, it operated on a subscription model: In some countries, it cost roughly $1 to download, equivalent to the cost of a handful of international text messages. For a homesick student contemplating candy and canned beans for dinner every other night, it was a pretty good deal. Today, not only is the service entirely free, but telecom companies in many countries offer data bundles that include WhatsApp and Facebook at little or no added cost, partly made possible through a controversial Facebook initiative known as Free Basics. Texting and calling cost a lot more: Sending an SMS in 2015 was 22 times more expensive in India than in the United States; in Brazil, it was 55 times as expensive. These disparities have helped fuel WhatsApp's rise in many countries. According to one estimate, nearly 500 million Indians use the platform.

Even before the outage, Facebook was facing growing scrutiny over misinformation and lawsuits accusing the company of being a monopoly. Last month, The Wall Street Journal reported that the company has internal research suggesting that Instagram is toxic for girls' mental health. WhatsApp has lots of its own problems, but it doesn't take much squinting to see the app as perhaps the closest realization of Big Tech's proclamation of technology as a force for good in the global South.