Facebook shuts down pro-Israel page targeted by 'cyber terrorism' campaign

Facebook shut down a pro-Israel page that reportedly had 77 million followers, after a "cyber terrorism" campaign by "radical Islamic" groups — who coordinated to target it with hate speech, its founder said.

"Jerusalem Prayer Group" founder Mike Evans claimed that critics bombarded the site with "more than a million" comments — and then said they had never posted to the site, CBN reported.

"There was an organized attempt by radical Islamic organizations to achieve this objective," Evans said.

"It was a very clever, deceptive plan by Islamic radicals," he said.

Evans — who was leading thousands in daily online prayers for Israel — claimed the flood of complaints about supposed fake posts was "a complete scam and fraud."

He told Arutz Sheva 7 that activists also flooded the page with vile anti-Semitic comments — include photos of and quotes by Hitler — just to be able to complain about it violating the social media giant's policies.

Evans, head of the Friends of Zion Association, told the outlet that he got the unexpected message that Facebook had removed the page when he landed in Israel ready to host a star-studded TV special.

Facebook previously removed over 200 "fake accounts" for "inauthentic behavior" in May 2019. Alamy Stock Photo

Facebook sent him a message saying the case was "complete" and there was "no further action" to be taken. "Please consider this decision final," Facebook told him, according to CBN.

He said he had not been able to speak to Facebook representatives since the page was shuttered on Friday. He also cannot post to his personal Facebook page, he said.

He has, however, been in touch with "dozens" of politicians, including Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Jared Kushner and his "dear friend" former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, to help him "with this fraudulent scheme to damage our good work," he told CBN.

"Facebook got caught with its pants down," he insisted.

"This is a prime example of bias on steroids. It's, in my opinion, cyber terrorism based upon racism."

A Facebook company spokesperson said: "We removed Jerusalem Prayer Team's Facebook Page for violating our rules against spam and inauthentic behavior."

President Biden reportedly pressed Israel to wind down its bombardment in Gaza as international objections have been raised amid a growing death toll.

Biden had publicly said he supported a cease-fire but also asserted Israel's right to defend itself, according to the White House press office.