Will the Derek Chauvin conviction for murdering George Floyd change policing?

Before a verdict like the one convicting Chauvin of murder can heal us, another killing rips the band-aid off an open wound. No, I am not just talking about the killing of 20-year-old Duante Wright literally a stone's throw away from where George Floyd was murdered; nor am I talking about 13-year-old Adam Toledo in Chicago. I am actually talking about 15-year-old Ma'Khia Bryant who was killed in Columbus, Ohio almost simultaneously to the time when the Chauvin verdict was being handed down.

Since the start of the Chauvin trial three weeks ago, over 60 people have been killed by police in the United States. Over 1,000 people are killed by police every year. Only half of these killings are actually ruled as justifiable and yet well less than 1% of officers are ever charged or convicted. This has not stopped taxpayers from dishing out billions of dollars in misconduct settlements.

So, while people are viewing Chauvin's murder conviction as an indictment on policing as a whole, this is clearly not the case. The Chauvin verdict was just for one killing. What people actually want is accountability for the entire system. As I mentioned to NBC News, "In court, individuals are prosecuted... Because of the over individualization of our court system, institutions are let off the hook. The court system magnifies the bad apple narrative."

Steven Schleicher, who along with fellow prosecutor Jerry Blackwell and the rest of the team assembled by Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison, was masterful. But even he stated as such during closing arguments. Schleicher stated, "He (referring to Chauvin) is on trial for what he did, not who he was." Schleicher was aiming to highlight that Chauvin lost his right to be called a cop. He was also admitting the realization that it is difficult to convict police officers of crimes, especially when a white cop does something to a Black person.

Though the Chauvin trial had all the elements to make this a slam dunk decision, the case was a litmus test on police-community relations and race relations in America. I mean if there was not a conviction in this case, what would it say about how far we still have to go as a nation? There was a myriad of video evidence, numerous in-person witnesses who saw the crime, a slew of officers testifying against Chauvin that his actions were unreasonable, a slew of medical experts, an all-star prosecution team, and a racially-diverse jury. Sadly, it takes this kind of overwhelming evidence in order to convict police officers in America, even officers who have nearly 20 misconduct complaints.

Altogether, the Chauvin trial was an exemplar. However, it remains an outlier and far from the norm of what typically happens when police use unjustifiable force and do not get convicted.

Patrick Yoes, The National President of the Fraternal Order of Police stated on CNN that "we can go one step closer to getting past this very dark day in American history." His statement suggests that Chauvin was acting in isolation and not with three other former officers, one of whom pulled a gun on Floyd minutes earlier and another, Chauvin's former partner, who had a series of misconduct complaints. Chauvin was not just a bad apple operating in isolation. Rather, he was part of a rotten tree in policing that allowed him to proliferate.