EXPLAINER: Legion of Chauvin prosecutors, each with own role

Viewers watching the trial of a former Minneapolis officer charged with murder in George Floyd 's death may be struck by the array of prosecutors taking turns presenting their case. The choice of who does what is no accident.

While Derek Chauvin 's attorney, Eric Nelson, works alone, the prosecution is being handled by two assistant attorneys general, Matthew Frank and Erin Eldridge, and two outside lawyers, Jerry Blackwell and Steve Schleicher. Ten more are working behind the scenes, many for free.

Experts agree the roles played by prosecutors are based on the skill sets each brings, but appearances matter, too.

WHY DID BLACKWELL GIVE THE OPENING STATEMENT?

The undercurrent of racial tension — a white police officer accused of killing a Black man — can't be ignored. Blackwell is a prominent Black civil rights attorney and one of the founders of the Minnesota Association of Black Lawyers. Last year, he won a posthumous pardon for a Black man wrongly convicted of rape before the infamous Duluth lynchings of 1920.

But law professors following the case said it's Blackwell's unique ability to translate complicated legal jargon into information jurors can understand that made him the obvious pick to lay out the prosecution's case.

"One of the things he's known for is his ability to speak English rather than 'legalese,'" said Joseph Daly, emeritus professor at Mitchell Hamline School of Law in St. Paul, Minnesota. "It's extremely important in this case just to try to explain what the elements of the crimes are that Mr. Chauvin is charged with."

ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIN ELDRIDGE QUESTIONED TWO OF THE YOUNGEST WITNESSES. WHY?

Eldridge joined the Minnesota attorney general's office in 2018. Before that, she served as a special assistant U.S. attorney in Nebraska and the Northern District of Iowa.

Jonathan Simon, a professor at University of California Berkeley School of Law, noted that our culture associates women with "being more caretaking toward children, toward juveniles."

Using Eldridge as the questioner may help to "ease the witnesses' experience and get their testimony as effectively as possible, but also to help the jury see this in the most sympathetic light," Simon said.

Daly said Eldridge "was particularly adept at showing empathy and kindness and a certain softness, which I think is really important when you're questioning children."

When an 18-year-old witness, Alyssa Funari, began to cry, Eldridge told her to take her time and offered a tissue.

"Is this difficult for you to talk about?" Eldridge asked. "Do you need a minute?"

IS THERE A DRAWBACK TO USING SO MANY DIFFERENT PROSECUTORS?

St. Louis University School of Law professor Sue McGraugh said she sought to make a personal connection with jurors when she was a prosecutor. She said she's rarely seen a case with so many prosecutors, and that it carries some risk.

"It's unusual because, as someone who has tried a lot of cases, you do want the jury to form some sort of attachment to someone on the legal team," McGraugh said.

SO, WHY SO MANY?

It's evidence of the stakes in the trial that Daly called "possibly one of the most important cases ever in the United States and possibly the world."

Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz appointed Attorney General Keith Ellison to handle the prosecution just days after Floyd's death, and Ellison vowed to utilize whatever resources were necessary.

Frank and Schleicher have handled the lion's share of questioning since the trial began. Frank is a 21-year veteran of the attorney general's office and has led the criminal division for 14 years. Daly called Frank "the most experienced and skilled lawyer in the criminal division of the attorney general's office."