The charges against Derek Chauvin in the death of George Floyd, explained

CNN — What was going through Derek Chauvin's mind when he kneeled on a handcuffed, prone George Floyd for nine minutes and 29 seconds last May?

That key question was at the heart of the three charges against the former Minneapolis Police officer and was top of mind for jurors in their deliberations. To render a verdict, they also had to interpret Minneapolis Police policies, Floyd's cause of death, and the specific language of the law.

The jury found Chauvin, 45, guilty of all three charges – second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter. He could face up to 40 years in prison for second-degree murder, up to 25 years for third-degree murder, and up to 10 years for second-degree manslaughter.

The actual sentences would likely be much lower, though, because Chauvin has no prior convictions. Minnesota's sentencing guidelines recommend about 12.5 years in prison for each murder charge and about four years for the manslaughter charge. The judge would ultimately decide the exact length and whether those would be served at the same time or back-to-back.

The second-degree unintentional murder charge alleged Chauvin caused Floyd's death "without intent" while committing or attempting to commit felony third-degree assault. In turn, third-degree assault is defined as the intentional infliction of substantial bodily harm.

The third-degree murder charge alleged Chauvin caused Floyd's death by "perpetrating an act eminently dangerous to others and evincing a depraved mind, without regard for human life."

The second-degree manslaughter charge alleged Chauvin caused Floyd's death by "culpable negligence whereby the person creates an unreasonable risk, and consciously takes chances of causing death or great bodily harm."

Each of the three charges required prosecutors to prove that Chauvin's actions were not objectively reasonable and that they were a substantial cause of Floyd's death. But the charges differ primarily in how they interpret his intent and mindset during his restraint of Floyd.

A still image from bystander video shows former officer Derek Chauvin while kneeling on George Floyd on May 25, 2020. From Darnella Frazier

Some of the terms in these charges have specific definitions. Others were left up to the jury to interpret.

As in any criminal case, the prosecution had the burden of proof and had to prove the charges beyond a reasonable doubt.

What the charges have in common

Central to all of the charges is the element of causation, or that Chauvin was a substantial causal factor in Floyd's death.