Here's what we know about the jury in Derek Chauvin's trial

CNN — Derek Chauvin was found guilty of murder and manslaughter on Tuesday after jury of 12 people, unnamed and unseen during the trial in Minneapolis, deliberated more than 10 hours.

The jury of five men and seven women began deliberations Monday to decide the extent of Chauvin's role in the death of George Floyd. Of the 12 jurors, six were White, four were Black and two were multiracial, according to information released by the court.

Two other White women selected as alternates in the case were dismissed by the judge prior to deliberations.

The jury selection process began March 9 at the Hennepin County Government Center and wrapped up March 23, exactly two weeks later.

Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man, died on May 25, 2020, after Chauvin, a White former Minneapolis Police officer, kept his knee on Floyd's neck for 9 minutes and 29 seconds while Floyd pleaded, "I can't breathe." His final moments were captured on video, and his death led to widespread protests against police brutality and racism under the banner Black Lives Matter as well as incidents of unrest and looting.

Chauvin had pleaded not guilty to second-degree unintentional murder and second-degree manslaughter charges. He had also pleaded not guilty to third-degree murder, which was reinstated in the case on March 11.

Chauvin could face up to 40 years in prison for second-degree murder, up to 25 years for third-degree murder, and up to 10 years for second-degree manslaughter.

Sentencing is set for eight weeks from now, Judge Peter Cahill said. The judge will decide the sentence.

Opening statements began March 29 and were followed by testimony from 45 witnesses that took about three weeks.

Three other former officers – Thomas Lane, J. Alexander Kueng and Tou Thao – are charged with aiding and abetting second-degree murder and aiding and abetting second-degree manslaughter. They are expected to stand trial this summer. All four ex-officers are out on bail.

Who was selected

The jurors in Chauvin's case all came from Hennepin County, which is demographically about 74% White and 14% Black, according to census data.

The prospective jurors had completed a 16-page questionnaire that asked for their personal thoughts on Black Lives Matter, policing and other topics. In court, each person was sworn in and then questioned one by one in a process known as voir dire. The juror's name, address and other information are kept anonymous.

Eric Nelson questioned the prospective jurors for the defense, while Steve Schleicher questioned them for the prosecution.

The first juror selected was a White man in his 20s or 30s who works as a chemist and said he has an analytical mind.

The second juror was a woman of mixed race who appeared to be in her 20s or 30s, according to a pool reporter's observations in court. She said she was "super excited" about getting the jury questionnaire form.

The third juror selected was a White man in his 30s who works as an auditor. He said he supports Black Lives Matter in the general context but doesn't like everything they have done.

The fourth juror selected was a Black man in his 30s or 40s who moved to the United States 14 years ago and works in information technology. He said he had a "somewhat negative" opinion of Chauvin, that he strongly disagreed with defunding the police and that police make him feel safe.