Derek Chauvin jurors speak out for first time about George Floyd's murder

CNN — Months after convicting the former Minneapolis Police officer who murdered George Floyd, jurors describe the trial as a life-altering experience that still haunts them.

It was their first and only interview since finding Derek Chauvin guilty in April of second-degree unintentional murder, third-degree murder and second-degree manslaughter.

Seven jury members told CNN's Don Lemon their verdict in the most important trial of the Black Lives Matter era was based solely on the evidence, not their views on race.

The gruesome video of Chauvin pressing his knee on Floyd's neck for more than nine minutes as the Black man cried out that he couldn't breathe is seared into their minds, they said. Some have sought counseling and therapy.

"It is definitely in my spirit and it will always be there," Sherri Belton Hardeman said of the video.

"Watching George Floyd call for his mom just broke my heart. Me being a mom, a Black mom, a Black grandmother. We call out for our mom when we're hurting, when we're in pain, and when we're in need... And unfortunately his mom could not come to his rescue. In fact, no one came to his rescue. It's heartbreaking."

'No room for error at all'

The jurors deliberated for more than 10 hours over two days before reaching a verdict. Chauvin, who plans to appeal his conviction, was sentenced in June to 22 and half years in prison.

The panel heard about three weeks of testimony. Prosecutors urged them to "believe your eyes" and rely on the video of Floyd's final moments, including cell phone footage taken by a 17-year-old woman. The defense called seven witnesses – but not Chauvin, who invoked his Fifth Amendment right not to testify.

"The first thing we did was, one, we took off our (face) masks and then we exchanged names," Nicole Deters said.

"Some of us felt a little bit eager because we had been holding all this in for three and a half weeks," Brandon Mitchell added.

Then came the first of many votes they would take, starting with the manslaughter count. The votes were anonymous, scribbled on pieces of paper.

When all agreed on guilty of manslaughter, some panel members began to play devil's advocate and suggested they discuss the defense arguments. Those arguments were enumerated on a whiteboard.

"I absolutely wanted to make sure that everyone was on the same page," Belton Hardeman said. "I wanted to make sure that we were doing due diligence and that we actually understood what our task was. There was no room for error at all."

There were about four votes on the second count before agreement was reached on guilty. They watched the video and went through reams of notes and testimony to answer questions such as: How many times was Floyd's pulse checked? What did the officers say to one another?

Jodi Doud posed another question: "Wait a minute. Does the intended act of harm have to be the death of George Floyd, or can it be him not providing the life support?"

"All of a sudden light bulbs just went on for those people I think that were undecided or on the not guilty side," Deters said.

"This is not what he did but more or less what he didn't do," Doud added, referring to Chauvin. "He did not provide life saving measures for George Floyd when he knew that the guy was in pain or needed medical attention."

Deters was a holdout – either for not guilty or undecided – until Doud spoke of intent.

"I was just kind of, like, 'Oh my gosh, you're totally right,'" Deters said. "There is intent ... to not provide lifesaving measures when he knew three times there was no pulse."

'Race wasn't even ever mentioned'

In the jury room, Belton Hardeman said, she recalled testimony about a Minneapolis police motto: "In our custody, in our care," or words to that effect.