What's happening with the federal case against the cops involved in the death of George Floyd

After the conviction, in April, of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin for the murder of George Floyd, the next step in the case seemed to be the trial of the other three former officers who were involved in Floyd's death — J. Alexander Kueng, Thomas Lane and Tou Thao. The trial was scheduled for August.

Then came a surprise: prosecutors announced that a grand jury had indicted all four officers on federal charges of violating Floyd's civil rights. With the announcement of federal charges, Hennepin County Judge Peter Cahill moved the state trial of Kueng, Lane and Thao to March of 2022.

Now, the focus in the case is on the charges brought by the federal government. Here's what we know about what the officers are charged with and how the federal trials will go.

What are the officers charged with?

Chauvin, Kueng, Lane and Thao were indicted on charges of violating Section 242 of Title 18 of U.S. Code, or depriving Floyd of his rights under the color of law.

The first count in the indictment charges Chauvin, describing him holding Floyd down with his knee on his neck, resulting in his death, with violating Floyd's right to be free from unreasonable seizure, "which includes the right to be free from the use of unreasonable force by a police officer."

The second count concerns Thao and Kueng, alleging they "willfully failed to intervene" to stop Chauvin from using unreasonable force which resulted in Floyd's death.

The third charge, which names all four officers involved, alleges they violated Floyd's right "not to be deprived of liberty without to due process of law, which includes an arrestee's right to be free from a police officer's deliberate indifference to his serious medical needs." It goes on to allege Floyd was in "clear need of medical care" and that by "willfully" failing to help, they acted with "deliberate indifference to a substantial risk of harm to Floyd."

In a separate indictment involving an incident from 2017, Chauvin is charged with two counts of violating the same section of law. These counts involve a 2017 incident with a then-14-year-old who the document says Chauvin held by the throat, struck in the head with a flashlight multiple times and pinned down with his knee despite lack of resistance, resulting in injury.

Are federal civil rights charges like these common?

Civil rights charges like these are relatively rare: Syracuse University found that between 1990 and 2019, federal prosecutors brought roughly 41 of them each year, representing a tiny fraction of federal prosecutions.

Mark Osler, a former federal prosecutor and professor at the University of St. Thomas School of Law, said it's more typical to see an officer charged with federal civil rights violations if they are acquitted in state court, as in the case of the officers who beat Rodney King in Los Angeles in 1992 and in the case of Michael Slager, the police officer who shot and killed Walter Scott in South Carolina in 2015.

In fact, the Star Tribune reported that the Justice Department planned to arrest Chauvin at the courthouse on federal charges if he were acquitted of the state ones. When he was convicted, the federal charges came out later.

What do the feds have to prove to convict the officers?

The section the officers are charged with violating describes a person "willfully" violating the rights of another under the color of law, meaning acting or pretending to act within their line of duty. It can be applied to police officers, prison guards, judges and other officials.