The Nevada Independent

We seem to have found ourselves in a bit of a pickle. As of April 16th, there have been 147 mass shootings in the United States. Since the start of the trial against former cop Derek Chauvin for the recorded murder of George Floyd, a mere three weeks ago, there have been more than 60 people killed by police officers. More than half of them were Black or of Latin American descent. Without researching the details, I can guarantee that a vast majority, if not all of them involved a gun.

This isn't going to be the typical liberal rant about how guns are evil and they all need to disappear. I mean, I wouldn't be mad if they did, but I have no delusions. I grew up in Florida, and I know how much some of you worship your weapons. What I've never been able to figure out, though, is why cops and their representatives so often come out on the side against gun reform? Inevitably, whenever there's a police-involved shooting, the cop in question always claims to have shot the victim because they had a gun, or at least the cop claims to have seen one. Felt one? Sensed one? I don't know, but cops seem to always be operating under the perceived threat of being shot at by someone. And the thing is, they're not entirely wrong.

The United States, as we all know, is the most heavily armed society in the world, averaging 1.2 guns per person living here. And in spite of the common myth about all the good guys with guns, studies show that areas with more guns have more homicides. It's not a complicated concept and hardly seems to warrant a study; deadly weapons attract, maybe even manifest, violent death. Who would've thought?

Officers aren't immune to this disease, of course. They also face death by gun at higher rates in jurisdictions with lax gun laws. Which then lands us in a vicious loop because in these places with higher gun ownership, where cops can rightly assume that just about anyone is at least physically capable of shooting them, they are more likely to use lethal force. So whether you had a gun at some point but tossed it, like 13-year-old Adam Toledo; or whether you were playing with a toy gun at a park, like 12-year-old Tamir Rice; or if you were legally purchasing a gun inside the store where they sell them, like John Crawford III; or if you announced that you were legally carrying your weapon to the cop who pulled you over for a broken taillight, like Philando Castile; whatever the circumstances under which you might so much as appear to have a deadly firearm, which then may or may not end up pointed at a cop, you've now become the deadly threat yourself and lethal use of force is now justified.