What the Arbery and Rittenhouse Verdicts Couldn't Tell Us - The New York Times

The first person Mr. Rittenhouse shot, Joseph Rosenbaum, was unarmed but visibly volatile — witnesses testified that he had threatened to kill multiple people, including Mr. Rittenhouse. He chased Mr. Rittenhouse into a parking lot and lunged at him and — according to Mr. Rittenhouse — reached for the barrel of his gun, after which Mr. Rittenhouse shot him. After that shooting, a group of protesters turned on Mr. Rittenhouse. Gaige Grosskreutz, who was shot by Mr. Rittenhouse but survived, had been armed with a handgun. He testified that he ran toward Mr. Rittenhouse and thought that he was "an active shooter." While fleeing, Mr. Rittenhouse fell. Anthony Huber attacked him, hitting him with a skateboard, before Mr. Rittenhouse shot and killed him. Then Mr. Rittenhouse shot Mr. Grosskreutz after Mr. Grosskreutz pointed his gun at him and advanced. So the self-defense claim was, legally, not a stretch.

More arcane were the discussions regarding the charge of weapons possession. Adults can openly carry firearms in Wisconsin, but when it comes to minors, the law was confusing, even to the judge. Minors are not allowed to carry guns, but one subsection could be interpreted to exempt long rifles. A local attorney called it an "extraordinarily poorly worded statute." But regardless of the clarity — or wisdom — of the law, once it was determined that the rifle that Mr. Rittenhouse carried to the protest had a 16-inch barrel, the judge dismissed the charge.

One could argue that if Mr. Rittenhouse had not brought a military-style semiautomatic weapon to a volatile situation, no one would be dead. But while this line of inquiry may be consistent with many people's moral intuition, and might even make good policy, it is not the law, and Wisconsin's law was not on trial.

Other features of the Rittenhouse trial were not specific to Wisconsin, and were more representative of the perniciousness of the criminal legal system as a whole. An officer testified that after the shooting, Mr. Rittenhouse approached his car with his weapon strapped to his chest and his hands up in surrender, but officers ordered him to get out of the way and rushed past him to search for the shooter. Apparently, it did not enter their minds that the baby-faced white teen could be the culprit. So Mr. Rittenhouse went home, and ultimately turned himself in.