Here's Why Harry And Meghan Named Their Daughter Lilibet

Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, welcomed the youngest member of the British royal family, a daughter named Lilibet Diana, in Santa Barbara, California, on Friday, the couple announced Sunday.

Key Facts

Lilibet Diana Mountbatten-Windsor was born Friday at Santa Barbara Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, California, near the couple's home in Montecito. Lilibet weighed 7 pounds, 11 ounces at birth, and both Meghan and Lilibet are "healthy and well," after returning home from the hospital, according to a statement. The name pays homage to two of the most important women in Harry's life—"Lilibet" was a childhood nickname used by close family members for Harry's grandmother, Queen Elizabeth, who had trouble pronouncing her own name as a child, while Lilibet's middle name, Diana, is a nod to Harry's beloved late mother, Princess Diana, who died tragically at age 36 in a 1997 car crash in Paris. Lilibet shares a middle name with Charlotte Diana, Lilibet's only female first cousin and the daughter of Prince William and his wife Kate. In lieu of gifts, Harry and Meghan asked well-wishers to support several nonprofits dedicated to improving the lives of women and girls, like Girls Inc., Harvest Home, CAMFED or Myna Mahila Foundation. Both Harry and Meghan will take parental leave from their work at their Archewell Foundation.

Crucial Quote

"She is more than we could have ever imagined, and we remain grateful for the love and prayers we've felt from across the globe," Harry and Meghan said in a statement Sunday. "Thank you for your continued kindness and support during this very special time for our family."

Surprising Fact

Lilibet will likely be Harry and Meghan's last child. In 2019, Harry told British anthropologist Jane Goodall he wanted a "maximum" of two children over environmental concerns.

Key Background

Lilibet is the Sussexes' second child, after their son, Archie, was born in 2019. Lilibet is eighth in line to the throne, after her grandfather, Prince Charles, her uncle, Prince William, William's three children, her father, Harry, and her brother, Archie. Harry and Meghan announced they were expecting their second child in February and revealed they were having a girl in March. Last July, before becoming pregnant with Lilibet, Meghan suffered a miscarriage, which she wrote about for a New York Times op-ed. Harry and Meghan stepped down as working members of the royal family last year, and in March gave a bombshell interview to Oprah Winfrey alleging members of the royal family expressed "concerns" about how dark Archie's skin tone would be. Archie and Lilibet are the only biracial members of the royal family.