'A symbolic moment': Harry and Meghan's Oprah interview marks turning point

It may be an American coronation of sorts.

When Oprah Winfrey's highly anticipated and potentially explosive interview with the Duke and Duchess of Sussex airs in its primetime spot on Sunday evening, millions across the US are expected to watch. It will be the couple's first interview since since stepping back from their royal duties in early 2020, but it could also mark the moment that the Sussexes evolve from British royalty to Hollywood elite.

"Having a big interview with these royals, or ex-royals, and having it done by Oprah Winfrey, begs the question – as it always does – who is the bigger star here, the interviewer or the interviewees?" said Robert Thompson, a professor of TV and film at the Newhouse School at Syracuse University.

While Meghan already had a successful career as an actor and was well known in the US before her marriage to Harry, since their move to the States last year the couple have dominated drugstore magazines and online gossip sites, all obsessed with tracking their lives in California as well as every twist and turn of their rifts with the royal family, which appeared to deepen even further this week.

While some in the UK have been concerned over the timing of the interview, as Prince Philip remains in hospital, commentators in the US have mainly focused on the claims that the palace appeared to be attempting a "smear" campaign prior to it airing, and the further revelations that could be in store.

"You've said some pretty shocking things here," Winfrey says to the pair in one teaser clip from the two-hour interview released this week.

"How do you feel about the palace hearing you speak your truth today?" Winfrey asks Meghan at the start of another. "I don't know how they could expect that after all of this time, we would still just be silent," Meghan responds.

Having secured lucrative deals with Netflix and Spotify that will finance their new independent lives, the couple have been speaking out on a range of hot-button issues in the US, from racism and police brutality following the killing of George Floyd to voting rights.

A January cover story in People magazine credited the "progressive" couple with having "changed the royal family forever" and continuing to "shake up the monarchy" while settling into their California lives with their young son, Archie.

In the interview, Britain, as well as the couple, will be under the microscope. Winfrey is expected to question the pair on the racism Meghan faced while living in the UK, how the couple felt "hounded" by the British tabloid press, and the role these played in their decision to move stateside.