Oprah Winfrey's Prince Harry and Meghan interview netted her $7 million and 17 million viewers. It also validated her larger business strategy.

On March 7, over 17 million Americans watched Oprah Winfrey's bombshell television interview with Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, on CBS. (Video: Reuters)

When Oprah Winfrey's interview with Prince Harry and Meghan aired on CBS on Sunday night, it wasn't just a victory for those who like sharp inside-the-palace intrigue. It was also a win for a cuttingly modern type of media business. Get a curated selection of 10 of our best stories in your inbox every weekend. ArrowRight Since the ocean of content began swelling several years ago, top-end creators have cannily surfed the wave. They have signed major deals, sometimes committing fully to one company, such as Netflix. But the shrewdest and most clout-laden among them have made big deals that nonetheless leave them room to work with other platforms.

And few have been shrewder at this than Winfrey.

In the past several years, the former talk-show impresario has signed an overarching content deal with Apple. It was a grand announcement, made grander by her standing at a Cupertino, Calif., event declaring, "They're in a billion pockets, y'all." So far, the deal has netted such programs as a limited-series coronavirus special and regular Book Club segments.

But it's far from the only significant media partnership she has made. Winfrey is producing a musical adaptation of "The Color Purple" for Warner Media's Warner Bros. Her production company Harpo is behind a number of popular syndicated shows such as "Rachael Ray," aired by a host of station groups. And she sold the Harry and Meghan interview to CBS's entertainment division, the crown jewel of ViacomCBS, for a reported $7 million. (Harry and Meghan were not paid.)

Winfrey has a past relationship with that company, too, via the news division and "60 Minutes," for which she was once a correspondent.

Experts who have followed Winfrey say this has been emblematic of a career in which she knows how to gravitate to the right platform for a given piece of content.

"Oprah could have gone to another network with this interview," said Nancy Koehn, a historian at the Harvard Business School who has done several case studies on Winfrey. "She could have gone exclusively to a streaming service [like Apple]. But she understood that CBS on Sunday nights, with a broad audience but also a certain amount of seriousness, was going to get a lot of people watching on television with also a lot of online engagement."

While her syndicated talk show is long behind her, this was a talent forged in those days, Koehn said.