Harry and Meghan's baby girl's name may honour the Queen & Philip

Over the weekend, Prince Harry attended his grandfather, Prince Philip's funeral in London. The Duke of Sussex travelled from his home in California to make the family event, and was pictured speaking to his brother, Prince William, on the way out of St George's Chapel in Windsor.

Harry's wife Meghan Markle, meanwhile, had to stay behind in the US, being heavily pregnant with a baby daughter who is due in June or July. After initially announcing their pregnancy on Valentine's Day this year, the Sussexes revealed it was a little girl they were expecting during their interview with Oprah Winfrey. Now, the couple will be planning what to call their baby girl, and there has been some speculation on social media that they might opt for a name that honours both Queen Elizabeth and the late Prince Philip.

The Queen has a nickname that was only used by her parents and by her husband, Prince Philip: Lilibet. It was believed to have come about after a young Elizabeth couldn't pronounce her own name, and it stuck throughout the years. In fact, Queen Elizabeth's father, King George VI, once famously said about his two daughters: "Lilibet is my pride. Margaret is my joy."

Because this was a name the Duke of Edinburgh used right up until the end, some people feel that Meghan and Harry might consider a shorter version - Lily - for their unborn child as a sweet, indirect tribute to both of Prince Harry's paternal grandparents.

The suggestion has featured numerous times on Twitter and in different Reddit threads about possible Meghan and Harry baby names. "I'm not sure how relationships are between the family, but Lily would be a cute way to honour the Queen (Lilibet)," wrote one royal fan recently.

The idea was also put forward two years ago, just before Meghan gave birth to baby Archie and nobody knew whether they were expecting a boy or a girl. "I read a prediction somewhere that they could use Lily for the Queen because of her childhood nickname Lilibet and because of Meghan's wedding bouquet being Lily of the valley. I think that's really sweet," posted a Reddit user.

Whether or not Meghan and Harry will choose to go for something family-related for their daughter remains to be seen, but as always with a royal baby, the bookies have been placing odds on a certain few female baby names in particular. The most likely options, according to betting site Paddy Power, are:

Diana (4/1 odds)

(4/1 odds) Allegra (11/1 odds)

(11/1 odds) Maya (12/1 odds)

(12/1 odds) May (12/1 odds)

(12/1 odds) Isabella (12/1 odds)

(12/1 odds) Molly (14/1 odds)

(14/1 odds) Alice (14/1 odds)

(14/1 odds) Abigail (14/1 odds)