Prince Harry and Meghan Markle Release the First Photo of Their Daughter, Lili

The first photo of little Lilibet are here! After Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, gave birth on Friday, June 4, we had to wait a bit before seeing the newest royal for ourselves. But now, Prince Harry and Meghan are sharing their youngest child with the public for the first time.

The Duke and Duchess shared the first photo of their baby girl in their holiday message. The new image is a sweet portrait of the family of four, and features Prince Harry holding Archie while Meghan lifts Lili into the air. Harry, Archie, and Meghan are all wearing jeans while Lili has on a sweet white outfit.

Lilibet 'Lili' Diana Mountbatten-Windsor is Meghan and Harry's second child, after their son, Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor. Archie is apparently adjusting quite well to life with his new sibling—on June 10, a spokesperson for the Sussexes told Town & Country that the two year-old royal is "very happy to have a little sister."

Outside of her immediate family, Lili is the fifth grandchild of Prince Charles and eleventh great-grandchild for Queen Elizabeth. In a sweet gesture, she is named after both the Queen and Princess Diana.

"Lili is named after her great-grandmother, Her Majesty The Queen, whose family nickname is Lilibet. Her middle name, Diana, was chosen to honor her beloved late grandmother, The Princess of Wales," the couple explained in the birth announcement.

The newest royal was born at Santa Barbara Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, CA, at a healthy 7 lbs 11 oz. After her birthday, Harry and Meghan shared a statement with a message of thanks: "The Duke and Duchess thank you for your warm wishes and prayers as they enjoy this special time as a family."

Prince Harry and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, also included a personal note on their Archewell website. "On June 4th, we were blessed with the arrival of our daughter, Lili. She is more than we could have ever imagined, and we remain grateful for the love and prayers we've felt from across the globe," they wrote. "Thank you for your continued kindness and support during this very special time for our family."