Why Did Lifetime Recast Prince Harry & Meghan Markle Again?

This Labor Day, Lifetime is set to debut its third installment in the Harry & Meghan movie franchise. This time, Sydney Morton and Jordan Dean will play Meghan Markle and Prince Harry. While Morton and Dean make the third set of actors to play the Sussexes, many of the people involved haven't changed since the first movie aired in 2018. Notably, Michele Weiss and Merideth Finn have served as co-executive producers for each of the movies. We caught up with Weiss and Finn to find out why they keep recasting, whether there will be another installment, and more. Below, read our entire Q&A with the movie's executive producers.

Why did you decide to recast Harry and Meghan for each of the three movies?

MW: Well, after the first film—we loved working with Parisa [Fitz-Henley] and with Murray [Fraser]—Parisa actually went off to do a bunch of feature films, so Parisa was just unavailable. So, after that first one we were just sort of put in a position of having to recast.

MF: We were like, "Nobody could ever do it!" We were so in love with Parisa and Murray, we were like, "It's impossible! How will we ever do it?" But then it's like you're producers; you have to do it. You'll figure it out. Then it was just so exciting to find a new duo who reinvented them in their own way. Then it was like, "Oh, this is fun." We enjoy this part of it. And that couple and that bond they bring with them, that kind of magic that elevates the whole movie.

MW: We were joking that this was going to be like our James Bond. After we had to recast after the first one, we were like OK, well then that's what we're gonna do for each of these movies.

MF: Once we knew we wouldn't have Parisa and Murray, we thought, "well, let's keep as many of the other people as we can!" Because we had such a great experience. It was so satisfying to make that first film, and we really loved our team. The director, writer, production designers, and other department heads and supporting cast are all the same. Because we were able to bring back so much of our whole team from the first one, I think it sort of set up this cool thing that happens with these movies when you add that new couple and what they bring to it.

When casting parts that are based on real people, are you more focused on resemblance or acting chops?

MW: I would say it is a balance of those things. It's not so much a lookalike, but they do have to remind me in some way of that person. Sometimes it's their voice, sometimes it's their manner. It's that mixed with wanting to get people who are good actors. I think we lucked out because [Sydney Morton and Jordan Dean] are both such good actors—and happened to look like Harry and Meghan.

MF: There are more people than you'd think that look like any of us. When you actually go looking at actors, there are enough people that resemble other people. One might resemble them in one way and another might in another way. Like for example, Sydney's voice is so much like Meghan Markle's voice. I don't think that was particularly true of the other actresses [who played Meghan]. Certainly, each of them did their work to prepare for that role and work their voices, but I think Sydney had that natural Meghan Markle voice. I think that goes a long way with her performance. She doesn't have the stature, she's a tinier person, but there are things she does with the performance that sell you on her version of the Meghan Markle character. I think each of the actresses act on different points of that character.

MW: I think we lucked out in that Sydney and Jordan are both Broadway actors. We didn't find out this out until after we had cast them both, but they had worked together. They were friends and had worked together on American Psycho on Broadway in 2016.

MF: It wasn't something we had planned, but it was like the happiest accident in the world that they already had that chemistry.

How do you create robust, relatable characters out of figures who have such monitored public personas?

MW: It's true that what they say goes through a process. It's not off the cuff, but they've spoken at events and charities and in circumstances that are important to them. I guess we've sort of felt like we've listened to what they've said. We've really tried to look at what have they chosen to do and say. And there have been a couple of times certainly where they've spoken, and it's been clearly from the heart. And obviously recently with the Oprah interview and things outside of palace purview...