Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's 5 Most Dramatic Lifetime Movie Moments: How Did They Really Go Down?

Lifetime's Harry & Meghan: Escaping the Palace premiered on Monday night, offering the network's latest onscreen interpretation of Meghan Markle and Prince Harry's rocky road as royals.

Combining tabloid fodder with the Duke and the Duchess of Sussex's own account of months of tumult and "private suffering," the movie spans the timespan just after the couple welcomed son Archie, now 2, until and through the continued repercussions resulting their bombshell interview with Oprah Winfrey in March 2021.

Of course the movie adds a few dramatic flourishes to the events contributing to Harry and Meghan's exit from royal life, but PEOPLE extensively covered these often public flashpoints, with insights from sources close to the royals.

Below, compare Lifetime's take on Harry and Meghan with how things went down as they happened (warning: spoilers ahead)...

TROOPING THE COLOUR 2019

Before Escaping the Palace, Lifetime first chronicled Harry and Meghan's courtship and engagement in A Royal Romance, then imagined the newlyweds' attempts to navigate their new life both publicly and privately in Becoming Royal.

The action of Escaping the Palace, essentially begins after the couple's second anniversary as Meghan and Harry (played in this movie by Broadway vets Sydney Morton and Jordan Dean) make their first appearance after the birth of baby Archie at Queen Elizabeth's official birthday celebration, Trooping the Colour, in 2019.

In the scene, we see the first signs of how the strictures of royal life are negatively impacting the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, with Harry testily telling Meghan to "Turn around!" during the traditional flypast. Meghan, still unused to the palace's rules (and smarting from media criticism), heeds her husband's words as she holds back tears.

And while Harry and Meghan's drama was front-and-center in Lifetime's retelling, in real life the new parents were intentionally sidelined in accordance royal protocol.

Meghan "was not as prominent perhaps as some people might have expected, but there's a pecking order," Joe Little, managing editor of Majesty magazine told PEOPLE. "There was no slight intended, but William being the older, more senior brother would go out [first] with his wife [Kate Middleton]."

Prince William (Jordan Whalen) and Kate Middleton (Laura Mitchell) with child actors playing Prince Louis, Prince George and Prince Charlotte in Lifetime's Harry & Meghan: Escaping the Palace. Lifetime

A palace source also revealed that the reason for the Sussexes' position stemmed from a more adorable reason: "There's no one laying this out, telling her where to stand. And there were a lot of kids who everyone would want at the front."

MEGHAN'S EMOTIONAL BREAKDOWN

Five months before the June Trooping parade, the Duchess had endured a real-life crisis point that she would wait more than two years to share.

The Duchess revealed in her Emmy-nominated interview with Winfrey that when she and Harry were scheduled to attend a performance at Royal Albert Hall in January 2019, she finally realized she could not ignore suicidal thoughts she later described as "real and frightening and constant."

Reflecting on that night years later, Meghan acknowledged, "I was ashamed to say it at the time and ashamed to have to admit it to Harry. But I knew that if I didn't say it — then I would do it. I just didn't want to be alive anymore."

Though Harry offered to attend the event alone, Meghan told him, "I can't be left alone." So they both put on a brave face and carried out their royal duties.

Meghan told Winfrey that when she looks at the photos from the night, she can see Harry's hand tightly gripped around hers: "[We were] both just trying to hold on." After they took their seats and the lights went down in the hall, she says she began "weeping."

"And that's I think so important for people to remember is you have no idea what's going on for someone behind closed doors. No idea," she said. "Even the people that smile and shine the brightest lights. You need to have compassion for what it actually potentially going on."

As Lifetime movies tend to do, Escaping the Palace took Meghan's revelations one step farther, visually connecting her suicidal ideations to those that Harry's mother, Princess Diana, had confessed in Diana: Her True Story.

Morton told PEOPLE last week, "There are some interesting parallels, I think, that we draw between Meghan's experience and some of Princess Diana's experience."

THE SUSSEXES' FINAL ROYAL APPEARANCE

Lifetime

Escaping the Palace finds plenty of dramatic tension in the couple's last engagement as working royals before their official exit at the end of March 2020. In a private moment, Meghan shows Harry her dazzling green Emilia Wickstead dress, complete with "superhero cape," for the Commonwealth Day service in March 2020.

Once they convene with the other royals, the film suggests the Sussexes were excluded from the royal procession as retaliation for their impending departure, creating friction between Harry and William (Jordan Whalen). In the film, Kate (Laura Mitchell) smoothes the situation over, and future king William ultimately offers to also forego the procession to appease Harry.