Senate Republicans shoot down Jan. 6 Capitol riot commission bill

Senate Republicans voted Friday to block a bill that would create a bipartisan, independent commission to investigate the Jan. 6 Capitol riot.

What You Need To Know Senate Republicans voted Friday to block a bill that would create a bipartisan, independent commission to investigate the Jan. 6 Capitol riot

Republican leaders argued the commission would duplicate other investigations and should also examine violence during last summer's racial justice protests

President Joe Biden said that he "can't imagine anyone voting against the establishing of a commission on the greatest assault since the Civil War on the Capitol" after an event Thursday in Cleveland

Republican Sens. Ben Sasse, Mitt Romney, Lisa Murkowski, Bill Cassidy, Rob Portman and Susan Collins voted to advance debate on the bill, but it was not enough to overcome the body's 60-vote filibuster threshold, killing the bill

Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer warned in a letter to colleagues that he could hold another vote on the commission: "I reserve the right to force the Senate to vote on the bill again at the appropriate time."

The final vote was 54-35, with six Republicans joining Senate Democrats in voting in to advance debate on the bill, but the total wasn't enough to overcome the Senate's 60-vote filibuster threshold, effectively killing the measure.

"I'm very disappointed, very frustrated that politics has trumped – literally and figuratively – the good of the country," West Virginia Democratic Sen. Joe Manchin said Friday.

"Out of fear or fealty to Donald Trump, the Republican minority just prevented the American people from getting the full truth about Jan. 6," Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said after the vote, adding: "The American people will see how each Republican senator voted."

"This vote has made it official: Donald Trump's 'Big Lie' has now fully enveloped the Republican Party," Schumer said. "Trump's big lie is now the defining principle of what was once the party of Lincoln."

The majority leader warned in a letter to colleagues released Friday that he could hold another vote on the commission: "I reserve the right to force the Senate to vote on the bill again at the appropriate time."

Senators were expected to vote on the legislation Thursday, but procedural delays and votes on an unrelated bill – the American Innovation and Competition Act, which aims to bolster scientific research and development in an attempt to make the U.S. more competitive with China – pushed the vote to Friday.

The legislation cleared the Democratic-led House last week with the support of more than three dozen Republicans, but failed to receive the 60 votes to overcome a filibuster, placing renewed pressure on Democrats to do away with the process.

"This commission is desperately needed," Schumer said ahead of the vote. "If our Republican friends vote against this, I would ask them: What are you afraid of? The truth?"

The Republicans who voted yes on the bill Friday were Nebraska Sen. Ben Sasse, Utah Sen. Mitt Romney, Alaska Sen. Lisa Murkowski, Louisiana Sen. Bill Cassidy, Ohio Sen. Rob Portman and Maine Sen. Susan Collins.