Prince Harry and Meghan Markle Honor Martin Luther King Day with 'Token of Our Appreciation'

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle are honoring Martin Luther King Day with a special gesture.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex provided some lunchtime fuel for the Los Angeles nonprofit The Mission Continues over the holiday weekend — and referenced the civil rights pioneer as a source of inspiration.

"In honor of this day of service, and in recognition of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and all that he stood for, we want to send our thanks and gratitude to the team at The Mission Continues," Harry, 36, and Meghan, 39, said in a message to the organization's volunteers.

"We're so proud of all the work you're doing to support your community and hope you enjoy this small token of our appreciation," the couple, who moved to California last year with son Archie, added. "Thank you for your service today and every day. We look forward to joining you soon. Stay safe and keep up the good work."

They signed their names as simply "Harry and Meghan" above their Duke and Duchess of Sussex titles.

Harry previously helped the L.A. branch of The Mission Continues, a national nonprofit that is staffed by military veterans, to distribute food to locals on November 13.

At the time, he visited the platoon's base in Compton (about 90 minutes away from the couple's home in Santa Barbara) in association with the community-based Walker Family Events Foundation, who later praised him for being "humble and kind."

Prince Harry. Walker Family Events Foundation

This weekend's food was organized by Homegirl Catering, a community social justice organization visited by Harry and Meghan in June.

"The Duke and Duchess of Sussex were just 'Harry and Meghan' to the homies," said Father Greg Boyle, Homeboy Industries founder, after the royals helped prepare food for the #FeedHOPE program, which provides meals to food-insecure seniors and youth across L.A. amid the COVID-19 pandemic.

"They rolled up their sleeves and deeply engaged with our workers in the bakery and café. It was immediate kinship and heartening in its mutuality."

On Sunday, The Mission Continues was just as grateful for Harry and Meghan's assistance —and that of their recently launched Archewell Foundation, which has the concept of helping support community organizations at its core.

"We'd like to send a huge thank you to The Duke and Duchess of Sussex, along with Archewell Foundation, for fueling the volunteers of our LA Service Platoon with lunch yesterday, so they can continue their hard work at the Compton VFW and help those living in the Compton community!" the non-profit posted on Instagram.

"We're truly honored to have their support! #MLKDayON."