Prince Harry, Meghan Markle, and Archie "Will Always Hold a Special Place" for Prince Philip in Their Hearts

Prince Harry has returned to the UK to say goodbye to his grandfather. Over the weekend, the royal family shared that the Duke of Sussex would be flying from California to the UK for Prince Philip's funeral; he is now back in the country, and staying at Frogmore Cottage, where is following COVID-19 protocols.

Town & Country understands that the Duchess of Sussex made efforts to travel alongside her husband, but she did not receive clearance from her doctor as she is currently pregnant with her second child. During the Sussexes' interview with Oprah earlier this spring, the couple revealed they are expecting a girl, and the baby is due to arrive sometime this summer.

This morning, the Duke of Sussex shared a statement paying tribute to his grandfather in which he said: "My grandfather was a man of service, honour and great humour. He was authentically himself, with a seriously sharp wit, and could hold the attention of any room due to his charm—and also because you never knew what he might say next."

Harry also referenced his soon-to-arrive baby girl, saying: "You will be sorely missed, but always remembered—by the nation and the world. Meghan, Archie, and I (as well as your future great-granddaughter) will always hold a special place for you in our hearts."

While the royals initially issued a joint statement confirming the sad news that Prince Philip had passed, in the days following his death, several members of the family have shared personal remembrances of the Duke of Edinburgh. Notably, Prince Harry's older brother Prince William also issued a statement this morning.

Read Prince Harry's full statement below:

"My grandfather was a man of service, honour and great humour. He was authentically himself, with a seriously sharp wit, and could hold the attention of any room due to his charm—and also because you never knew what he might say next.

He will be remembered as the longest reigning consort to the Monarch, a decorated serviceman, a Prince and a Duke. But to me, like many of you who have lost a loved one or grandparent over the pain of this past year, he was my grandpa: master of the barbecue, legend of banter, and cheeky right 'til the end.

He has been a rock for Her Majesty The Queen with unparalleled devotion, by her side for 73 years of marriage, and while I could go on, I know that right now he would say to all of us, beer in hand, 'Oh do get on with it!'

So, on that note, Grandpa, thank you for your service, your dedication to Granny, and for always being yourself. You will be sorely missed, but always remembered—by the nation and the world. Meghan, Archie, and I (as well as your future great-granddaughter) will always hold a special place for you in our hearts.