New Finding Freedom epilogue delves further into Harry and Meghan's Royal Family racism allegations

The updated edition alleges that the version of events offered to the media by palace courtiers at the time of Archie Mountbatten-Windsor's birth, attesting that the couple did not want their son to be a prince, was not the full story, and that the pair would have liked to have had this option. Meghan stated in the Oprah interview: 'They didn't want him to be a prince... which would be different from protocol, and [said] that he wasn't going to receive security'.

The epilogue is said to add that Meghan found doing the interview 'cathartic' and 'liberating', and quotes a friend of hers as alleging that the Royal Family have since taken 'little accountability' for the accusations made against them. The book critiques the way the couple's allegations of racism were handled, comparing it to the action taken after claims of bullying against Meghan, which prompted courtiers to launch an inquiry, with a source stating that 'full ownership was not taken' by the Royal Family to address Meghan's comments.

Socbie and Durand reportedly also make claims about the duke's finances in the run-up to Megxit, stating that Harry and Meghan 'wouldn't have survived' without his inheritance from his late mother, Diana, Princess of Wales. The new edition also explores Harry's struggles with leaving elements of his royal role behind him, stating that he was 'deeply saddened' when he wasn't granted permission to have a wreath laid in his name on Remembrance Sunday last year, on account of no longer being a 'frontline royal'.

The authors cite the Duke of Edinburgh's funeral as a key moment in shifting the tone of interfamilial relations, with a source claiming that while Harry found the ceremony 'surreal', it brought 'progress' towards reconciliation. The book seeks to shed further light on the relationship between Harry and his older brother and father, claiming that he's spoken to the Duke of Cambridge on a number of occasions, while Harry and Prince Charles are on 'light speaking terms'.

It's also said that while feelings among the Royal Family remain 'raw' in the wake of the Oprah interview, a source close to the couple claims that 'it will force people to talk in order for the healing to begin', although 'it will take time to get past the hurt', adding: 'There has to be some acknowledgement of understanding about what the Sussexes went through in order for there to be progress'.