Meghan and Prince Harry discussed moving to New Zealand in 2018, governor general says

The Queen's representative in New Zealand has said Prince Harry and Meghan discussed moving to the South Pacific country during their 2018 visit, more than a year before the couple stepped back from royal duties and moved to the US.

Governor general Patsy Reddy said: "I remember they'd just been down to the Abel Tasman national park when we sat down and had a drink, and they said that they could imagine living in a place like this and wondered whether we thought it would be theoretically possible. Even possible for them to have a place in New Zealand.

"Of course, we said sure. It would be fine. There are lots of opportunities to live in New Zealand, but that would be something that they'd have to explore,'" Reddy said. "They were looking at how they might raise their family. And, obviously, they've made some decisions since."

Reddy, 67, will leave her largely ceremonial role representing the Queen in New Zealand in October after a five-year term. A lawyer who was made a dame for her services to arts and business, Reddy officially signs bills into law, presides over many public ceremonies and tours the country.

She also told the Associated Press in an interview she believes the British monarch should remain New Zealand's head of state and described the hand-typed letters she sends to the Queen.

Harry and Meghan visited New Zealand in 2018 at the end of a hectic 16-day royal tour of the South Pacific, and Reddy recalled the couple as being tired.

Reddy said she didn't view the talk of moving as a formal request for assistance but more of an informal discussion about the couple's hopes for the future. She said the pair seemed impressed with the access to the outdoors and their interactions with New Zealanders.

Still, the discussion shows the couple were considering options outside Britain less than six months after they married and well before their eventual move to the US

During a widely watched interview with Oprah Winfrey near the couple's California home earlier this year, Prince Harry and Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, mentioned they'd offered to the royal family to take a step back from royal life in a Commonwealth country such as South Africa or New Zealand.

Reddy said she watched the interview but didn't want to comment on internal royal family business. "I thought they were a lovely couple and I hope they've got a great future where they are," Reddy said.

She said she regularly expresses her confidential views of what's happening in New Zealand to the Queen, such as the nation's response to the pandemic. She said the communication "is quite touchingly old-fashioned, by letter."