All Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's Run-Ins With Paparazzi in California

Prince Harry was photographed with James Corden filming on a tourist bus in L.A.—the latest of at least eight paparazzi incidents since he and Meghan Markle moved to California.

The Duke of Sussex looked relaxed in a polo shirt, chatting with The Late Late Show host as the cameras rolled on the open top deck.

Footage and still images of the two Brits touring L.A. appeared on TMZ while paparazzi images by picture agency Mega then appeared on other websites.

The latest apparently unsolicited pictures come on the back of two lawsuits Harry and Meghan brought last year against picture agencies.

Carpool Karaoke

The prince and Corden filmed a COVID-safe edition of Carpool Karaoke using the open top double-decker, owned by Big Bus, to keep air circulating, People magazine reported.

There was also a police escort and Prince Harry's security team were present when the two stars spoke.

The bus was filmed setting off from the CBS studios, with footage posted on TMZ, and was also photographed on its route.

A Christmas Outing to Beverly Hill

Harry and Meghan were photographed out in Beverly Hills a few days before Christmas with the pictures appearing on Page Six.

The duchess was wearing a $375 J.Crew coat and both had black face masks during the excursion, Page Six reported.

Both wore hats pulled down low over their faces in the images, credited to paparazzi agency Backgrid.

A Celebration Dinner With David Foster and Katharine McPhee

Meghan and Harry were photographed by Backgrid in October, going for dinner in their new Montecito community with David Foster and his pregnant wife Katharine McPhee.

The pictures ran as an exclusive on the Daily Mail online, which reported they arrived at Lucky's Steakhouse in a chauffeur-driven SUV at around 7.30 p.m.

The website reported the dinner took place a day before Foster and McPhee announced she was pregnant with her first child and his sixth.

A Visit to the Dentist in July

Meghan and Harry were photographed by Backgrid again in July collecting their car from a valet in Beverly Hills.

The pictures ran exclusively on the Daily Mail online, which described their Cadillac SUV as "gas-guzzling" and suggested it was not in keeping with their environmental credentials.

Blog Meghan's Mirror also suggested she may have been going to the dentist as she was carrying a toothbrush.

A Lawsuit Over Drone Images of Baby Archie

Picture agency X17 used a drone to photograph baby Archie playing in a plastic toy car with Meghan's mother Doria Ragland over the summer.

They were in a private area of Tyler Perry's Los Angeles mansion, where the couple were staying at the time.