British royals' Oprah interview nominated for an Emmy

The bombshell interview given by Britain's Duke and Duchess of Sussex to Oprah Winfrey has been nominated for an Emmy Award.

Oprah with Meghan and Harry: A CBS Primetime Special is up for Outstanding Hosted Nonfiction Series or Special.

The Emmys recognise excellence in US television.

Chat show queen Winfrey will pick up a gong should the special win, as will the producing team.

It is up against My Next Guest Needs No Introduction with David Letterman, Stanley Tucci: Searching for Italy, United Shades of America with W Kamau Bell and the documentary series Vice.

Prince Harry and Meghan Markle used their March interview with Winfrey to make a series of explosive allegations against the royal family.

The couple accused a member of the family - not the Queen or Duke of Edinburgh - of making a racist comment about their son, Archie.

The Emmy winners will be announced on 19 September

Winfrey was left opened-mouthed when the duchess - the first mixed-race member of the modern British monarchy - said a fellow royal was worried about how dark their son Archie's skin tone might be before he was born.

Meghan Markle said she had suicidal thoughts but her approaches to the monarchy for help were turned down.

Other revelations included Prince Harry's admission he has become estranged from his father, the Prince of Wales, saying: "I feel really let down." He added that he would make it one of his priorities "to try and heal that relationship".

Buckingham Palace later said the Queen was "saddened" to hear about the couple's struggles but added "some recollections may vary" over the other allegations.

Elsewhere in the Emmy nominations, the US appetite for British royalty was further proved by a day to remember for The Crown.

Netflix's lavishly produced regal drama and Disney+'s Star Wars spin-off The Mandalorian lead the shortlist with 24 nominations apiece.

The Crown and The Mandalorian received the most nominations