The Queen Put the "Monarchy First" Ahead of Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, Royal Expert Says

We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we love. Promise.

The Queen always, always puts the job first. Anyone with a base level of knowledge about the royals knows that family drama can't deter Queen Elizabeth II from prioritizing the monarchy, and Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's royal exit ~dramz~ was no exception.

Royal author Matthew Dennison breaks down the Queen's behind-the-scenes reaction to Harry and Meghan's decision to step back from royal life (and move across the pond to California) in his new book . In an early excerpt from the book (which is set to be released September 1) published by Us Weekly, Dennison said that "Elizabeth was hurt and disappointed" by the Sussexes' decision but she didn't let that affect her monarchy-first mindset.

"Elizabeth's official statement expressed loving finality: 'It is my whole family's hope that today's agreement allows them to start building a happy and peaceful new life.' It was an attempt to reassert control in the interests of damage limitation and a decisive but dark beginning to a new decade," Dennison writes. "Elizabeth had never been a sentimental woman; she had acted in the only way she understood."

Dennison also included a little context (you know, for any royal readers out there who haven't seen season 1 of The Crown) and explained why the Queen forced Harry and Meghan to make a clean break from royal duties instead of letting them continue to do some engagements.

"As throughout a life in which she had consistently honored her father's belief that 'the highest of distinctions is the service of others,' she had placed the monarchy first, safeguarding its mission of service and duty that could never, she was certain, be a part-time calling," he writes in the excerpt.

Of course, it should go without saying (but maybe doesn't, so here we are, saying it explicitly) that "putting the monarchy first" and "still loving and supporting Harry and Meghan" are not mutually exclusive, and the Queen has made it abundantly clear that the latter is very much the case several times since the royal exit.