Prince Harry and Meghan Markle Donate Diapers to a Charity in L.A.

The Duke and Duchess of Sussex love to surprise those in need with donations. Today, the pair gave an unexpected large gift to Harvest Home, a Los Angeles charity supporting homeless pregnant women. The Harvest Home team walked outside their Pico-Robertson location to find boxes upon boxes of diapers.

The donation was made in a collaboration between Prince Harry and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex, their charitable foundation, Archewell, and companies Procter & Gamble and Pampers. Harvest Home posted about the surprise gift on their Instagram account, alongside a photo of the many diapers.

"Pallets and pallets of diapers ...we are so grateful! 🤍," the organization wrote. "These diapers recently arrived at our new Pico-Robertson Home and we could not be more thankful to the Archewell Foundation, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, and @proctergamble and @pampersus for the incredible donation through their Million Acts of Love Campaign. Thank you helping us ensure that our moms and babies have all they need in our homes!"

The Duke and Duchess became involved with Harvest Home when they moved to California. On Mother's Day this May, the pair made another surprise donation to the charity through the Archewell Foundation, the charitable arm of their Archewell media and nonprofit organization. The couple made the gift while Meghan was pregnant with their daughter, Lilibet, adding further salience to the cause. After making that donation, Meghan released a statement explaining why she chooses to support Harvest Home.

Read the Duchess of Sussex's full statement about Harvest Home here:

As a mom, and an expectant mom, I deeply appreciate the significance of community support, safe and accessible pregnancy resources, and trusted guidance in a nurturing setting. These ingredients are essential to not just our physical health, but our mental well-being, and I commend you for leading a compassionate community that lives these values.

Thank you for all you do for the women and mothers who are turned away elsewhere, at no fault of their own. When we consider how vulnerable any mother feels during the fragile time of pregnancy, we gain perspective about how especially difficult it can be for pregnant women of color and those who come from under-resourced and vulnerable communities. I hope you will accept an offer of support to help further uplift Harvest Home's residents.