Harry and Meghan's baby name proves they're not the heroes you thought they were. And that's OK

On June 4, Meghan Markle gave birth to her second child at Santa Barbara Cottage Hospital. "It is with great joy that Prince Harry and Meghan, The Duke and Duchess of Sussex, welcome their daughter, Lilibet 'Lili' Diana Mountbatten-Windsor, to the world," a statement from the Sussexes read.

Further explaining the name, the statement added: "Lili is named after her great-grandmother, Her Majesty The Queen, whose family nickname is Lilibet. Her middle name, Diana, was chosen to honor her beloved late grandmother, The Princess of Wales."

Any new life is to be celebrated, and I'm happy that Markle and her child are healthy — especially considering the high rates of maternal and infant mortality among Black women in America, regardless of class status. On a human level, I see this as a joyous occasion and I hope that Lili has a good life, surrounded by love and security.

However, her name opens up a political discussion.

For me and many others, Meghan and Harry's decision to name their Black child after the head of the family that they say racially abused them is baffling. The Sussexes sat down with Oprah a few months ago and detailed their sadness at being stripped of security and hearing that their son, Archie, would not have a title. They spoke about a family member musing as to how "dark" Archie would be while Meghan was pregnant. Meghan also revealed that she struggled with suicidal ideation while confined to palace grounds, and suggested the royal family denied her the life-saving mental healthcare she so desperately needed.

In the shocking interview, Harry and his wife made it very clear — they left the Royal Family to save Meghan's life, protect themselves and their children from racism, and flee the tyranny of British tabloids.

At first glance, this may seem like it has nothing to do with Queen Elizabeth. In fact, Meghan and her husband were effusive about the Queen's support of them in the Oprah interview. But the Queen has a great deal of power when it comes to family affairs. For instance, several of Archie's relatives — including Zara Phillips, daughter of Princess Anne and Mark Phillips — do not have titles. But according to the family, this was a deliberate choice made by their parents. Meghan and Harry made it clear that they were not given a choice; they were merely informed.