Prince Harry denies report he and Meghan are quitting social media for good

Prince Harry is doubling down on his calls to reform social media two weeks after an angry mob staged a deadly siege at the U.S. Capitol.

Many who laid siege to the Capitol did so on the erroneous belief that the 2020 election was stolen from former President Donald Trump, a conspiracy theory that spread quickly on social media, experts say.

"We have seen time and again what happens when the real-world cost of misinformation is disregarded. There is no way to downplay this," Harry said in a new interview with Fast Company. "There was a literal attack on democracy in the United States, organized on social media, which is an issue of violent extremism."

Prince Harry, who now lives in California, said he and his wife, Duchess Meghan, spent much of the past year talking with experts about the spread of misinformation, which he calls a "humanitarian issue."

"The avalanche of misinformation we are all inundated with is bending reality and has created this distorted filter that affects our ability to think clearly or even understand the world around us," he said. "What happens online does not stay online -- it spreads everywhere, like wildfire: into our homes and workplaces, into the streets, into our minds. The question really becomes about what to do when news and information sharing is no longer a decent, truthful exchange, but rather an exchange of weaponry."

Harry described how his work on social media reform has been influenced by the online harassment he and Meghan have faced throughout their relationship. The couple wed in 2018 and stepped down last year from their roles as senior working members of Britain's royal family.

They now live with their nearly 2-year-old son Archie in Montecito, California.

"I was really surprised to witness how my story had been told one way, my wife's story had been told one way, and then our union sparked something that made the telling of that story very different," said Harry. "That false narrative became the mothership for all of the harassment you're referring to. It wouldn't have even begun had our story just been told truthfully."

"But the important thing about what we experienced is that it led to us hearing from so many others around the world. We've thought a lot about those in much more vulnerable positions than us, and how much of a need there is for real empathy and support," he said. "To their own degree, everyone has been deeply affected by the current consequences of the digital space. It could be as individual as seeing a loved one go down the path of radicalization or as collective as seeing the science behind the climate crisis denied."

"We are all vulnerable to it, which is why I don't see it as a tech issue, or a political issue -- it's a humanitarian issue," Harry added.

Harry and Meghan, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, are no longer on social media, having disbanded their popular Instagram account, Sussex Royal, after they left the royal family.

But Harry denied a recent report saying he and Meghan had left social media for good, saying he has seen how the platforms "can offer a means of connecting and community, which are vital to us as human beings."