Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner Are Reportedly Already Unwelcome at Their Billionaire's Bunker Country Club

Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner have only been landowners in Miami's exclusive "Billionaire's Bunker" enclave since December, but it seems the couple is already having some issues with their new neighbors.

While the outgoing presidential advisers became the proud owners of one of only 29 residences located on Indian Creek Island, as Page Six reported at the time, just having a home there doesn't automatically guarantee that über-rich residents will be admitted to the compound's even more exclusive country club. A source explained to the outlet on Wednesday, "You have to be nominated and make a formal application. But it only takes one member to object against any new member, and many members are objecting, particularly after the events at the Capitol on January 6." They added, "The Indian Creek Country Club members are very picky and the word is that Javanka need not apply," going on the suggest that "Jared and Ivanka can lunch with their fellow 'patriots' at Mar-a-Lago."

The 300-member Indian Creek Country Club, established around 1930, boasts an 18-hole golf course and restaurant, with initiation fees upwards of $150,000, per Page Six. It's also been embroiled in controversies of its own due to its former practice of only allowing a handful of Jewish people and people of color as members.

But just because Jared and Ivanka's country-club future isn't looking bright doesn't mean their social calendar won't be full. A second source told the outlet that the couple has already been made to feel very welcome among the Billionaire's Bunker set, who, Page Six notes, are largely Republican, and the two have already received a number of invitations to dinner. Thankfully, Jared's brother Josh and his supermodel wife, Karlie Kloss, also just reportedly purchased a $23.5 million mansion nearby, and both homes are conveniently located roughly 60 miles from Mar-a-Lago where Donald and Melania Trump are likely to spend most of their post-presidential life, even though they may not be legally permitted to live there.