Hurricane Ida one of the deadliest storms to hit New Jersey

In the waking hours after remnants of Hurricane Ida ripped through New Jersey Wednesday night, the homes smashed like dollhouses and flooded public spaces quickly drew comparisons to some of the biggest storms to crash upon the Garden State.

But by Thursday afternoon it became clear that Ida would stand out in history as one of New Jersey's deadliest storms ever.

Gov. Phil Murphy said 23 people "lost their life to this storm," about half of them in Central Jersey. Most died after becoming trapped in vehicles that were overtaken by floodwaters.

The death toll rose to 25 overnight, Murphy said Friday morning on the "Today Show." Six people were still missing, he said.

Asked if the number of fatalities could rise, Murphy said, "Sadly, likely yes."

As it stands, though, Ida is the deadliest storm since Sandy struck in 2012. Tallies vary, but the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention put the death toll in that storm at 34.

NJ rainfall totals: How much rain did North Jersey get from Tropical Storm Ida?

Did storm flood your home?: How to file an insurance claim for flood or storm damage to your NJ home

At least 45 people died nationwide in Ida, most of them concentrated in New Jersey and New York.

Central Jersey appears to have been the deadliest region in New Jersey, with at least eight fatalities.

In North Jersey, at least three people were killed.

In Passaic, a man was killed after floodwaters engulfed the car he was in. A Bloomfield resident died while trying to hook something up outside during the storm. A man was also found dead in Maplewood after his wife reported him missing during the storm. Police believe he may have been swept away by flood waters.

Story continues below gallery

Sandy and other storms

Sandy is the modern benchmark for destruction. But a year before, Tropical Storm Irene flooded parts of New Jersey and claimed the lives of at least 10 people, according to news reports.

With Ida, intense rain and tornadoes wreaked a new level of havoc.

No storm in recent history claimed as many lives as Ida, Sandy or Irene, seeming to bolster the message of Murphy and other elected Democrats that climate change is taking a more frequent and extreme toll on humanity.

"This is just yet another reminder these things are coming more frequently, they're more intense — sadly, more deadly," Murphy said on "Good Morning America" Thursday.

New Jersey's location, surrounded by water on both sides, and its dense population makes it particularly susceptible to destruction. But the three recent storms — all within the last decade — seem to underline Murphy's point.

The governor declined on Thursday to provide details about the deaths from Ida, but he and other public officials spent the day making the case for enhancing the country's infrastructure to try and limit the damage from future storms.

The frequency and intensity of storms may have played a role in Ida, Murphy said. Many areas were still saturated from Tropical Storm Henri less than two weeks ago, he said, leading to severe flooding.