The 10 most expensive climate-change disasters of 2021 cost $170 billion — and this U.S. storm was No. 1

Hurricane Ida, the ninth named storm in another Atlantic season for the books, clobbered New Orleans and much of Louisiana with deadly 150-mile-per-hour winds in the final week of August. But it was far from done.

Ida then spun north, retaining plenty of punch to flood New York's subway system, kick up seven tornadoes in New Jersey and Pennsylvania and turn inland Philadelphia's freeways into canals. Ida cost $65 billion, according to some measures, and 115 lives; including 50 deaths in the less-suspecting Northeast alone. The property damage made it the most expensive natural disaster of 2021. Floods in Europe came second at $43 billion.

In all, the top 10 natural disasters totaled at least $170 billion, according to insurance data, news reports and other sources compiled by U.K. nonprofit Christian Aid.

Don't miss: Wall Street could crumble under the weight of a 'carbon bubble,' these groups warn

This year marked a 13% rise in financial costs from global natural disasters over 2020. The Christian Aid report, which is compiled each year, largely tracks insured costs and may not account for all economic loss.

Notably, 2021 kicked off with an oddity.

Typically temperate Texas suffered under a February ice storm that strained its wind- and natural gas-powered independent electric utility. Citizens hunkered down in darkened, freezing homes — at least those lucky enough to have shelter. More than 111 people died in the state, largely from hypothermia. The financial toll topped $20 billion, based on insurance data. Local reports said the overall impact could have reached $200 billion.

Read: Texas and Midwest U.S. at risk of winter blackouts again if another deep freeze hits, watchdog warns

Source: Christian Aid, using Aon and Swiss Re insurance figures, World Weather Attribution, Reuters, and other nonprofits and news outlets.

Ida's cost, the number of states impacted and its push inland made it memorable. But it was just one storm within another Atlantic hurricane season that quickly blew through the list of given names that are historically used to distinguish the events. It's the first time hurricane forecasters have used up the World Meteorological Organization's initial list of names in two consecutive years: 2020 and 2021.

Steve Bowen, meteorologist and head of catastrophe insight at insurer Aon, said 2021 is expected to be the sixth time that global natural catastrophes have crossed the $100 billion insured loss threshold. All six times took place since 2011, and 2021 will be the fourth in five years.

In its own assessment issued earlier in December, the globe's largest reinsurer, Swiss Re, estimated that natural catastrophes and extreme weather events caused around $250 billion in damage over the past year. That marked a 24% increase over last year. The cost to the insurance industry alone was the fourth highest since 1970, Swiss Re said.

Read: It's got Leo and Meryl and the return of Jennifer Lawrence: 'Don't Look Up' is the darkly comedic climate-change film that doesn't mention climate change

Natural disasters are not new, of course, but their frequency, intensity and their cost in property damage to both developed and developing nations as population numbers rise and cluster in cities and on coasts has been increasingly linked to climate change.

For instance, warming oceans mean that hurricanes suck up and carry more water deeper inland and for longer, bringing devastating flooding. To the benefit of citizens and buildings, construction and warning systems have improved. But the range of disasters is also taxing on resources: heat, cold, floods, wildfires, drought have all made for memorable 2021 headlines.

And: 'You will recover and rebuild': Biden visits tornado-ravaged Kentucky sites and pledges to do 'whatever it takes'

It didn't crack the top 10 for costs, but unprecedented heat, drought, and as a result, fires, in the Western U.S. and Canada counted among the more shocking realizations of 2021.