Governor Hochul and FEMA Announce Approval for Nassau County's Addition to Federal Disaster Declaration Following Damages Caused by Remnants of Hurricane Ida

Governor Kathy Hochul and the Federal Emergency Management Agency today announced Nassau County has been approved for a Major Disaster Declaration that will help provide for federal financial relief and deliver both Individual and Public Assistance for eligible New Yorkers recovering from flooding and other storm-related damages caused by the remnants of Hurricane Ida.

Additional counties approved for federal Individual and Public Assistance include Bronx, Queens, Kings, Richmond, and Westchester. New York County is currently approved for Public Assistance only. Governor Hochul and the Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services continue to work with federal, state, and local partners to ensure New Yorkers are provided with the resources and assistance to fully recover from the devastating effects of Hurricane Ida.

New Yorkers who have been displaced, including uninsured families, will be eligible for funds for housing assistance, as well as crisis counseling, unemployment assistance, home repairs and legal services.

"Nassau County families and communities were hit particularly hard by the remnants of Ida, and I want to commend the hardworking damage assessment teams on the ground who provided information to secure this important federal disaster assistance," Governor Hochul said. "I thank President Biden and FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell for their continued support in helping New Yorkers recover from these devastating floods.

Nassau County Executive Laura Curran said, "I fought hard to ensure Nassau was included in FEMA's disaster declaration because too many families in our County continue to suffer. I thank Governor Kathy Hochul for her extraordinary efforts and leadership during this time, along with all our partners on the federal level. I urge anyone in Nassau who was affected by the remnants of Ida to visit FEMA's website and begin the application process as soon as possible."

A Major Disaster Declaration allows for financial assistance from the federal government for local communities and individual New Yorkers to continue their recovery. Assistance includes funding for emergency protective measures, debris removal and repairs to public buildings and infrastructure, as well as direct support for individuals and homeowners. New Yorkers may also be able to receive funds for other uninsured or under-insured disaster-caused expenses and serious needs, such as repair or replacement of personal property or funds for moving and storage, or medical, dental, and child care. Homeowners and renters should make every effort to document their losses.

Eligible homeowners will work directly with FEMA to obtain funding. Assistance can include funds for temporary housing units, housing and driveway repairs, crisis counseling, unemployment assistance and legal services.

The New York State Division of Homeland Security and Emergency Services deployed specialists to assess damage in order to apply for federal disaster aid. The state remained in constant contact with FEMA and local partners throughout this process to push for an expedited review on the federal side once the preliminary damage assessments were finalized.

State and federal experts have estimated the storm has now caused more than $140 million in damage to public infrastructure and property and more than 2,900 homes suffered damage.

Funding to support the restoration of public infrastructure will come through FEMA's Public Assistance Program, which provides reimbursement for local governments after a disaster has been declared by U.S. President for activities such as debris removal, emergency protective measures, repair and rebuilding of publicly-owned infrastructure that was damaged including roads, schools, bridges, parks, hospitals, police stations, fire houses, water and waste water treatment facilities and other public facilities.

Governor Hochul previously announced the launch of the new online resource hub for impacted New Yorkers, available at ny.gov/Ida. The hub provides information on available assistance programs and where to find services such as shelter and access to food. Information on the site will be updated as more resources for New Yorkers become available. Additionally, the State is partnering with New York City to support Recovery Service Centers, which enlist the support of elected officials who represent impacted communities and provide information on available resources and assistance.

Governor Hochul also directed that $378 million in previously awarded hazard mitigation funding from FEMA be devoted to bolstering New York State's infrastructure against extreme weather.