Waverly residents prepare physically, emotionally for additional rain from Hurricane Ida

Only five days after Melissa "Kay" Anderson was evacuated from her flooding Waverly home, warnings of Hurricane Ida began to sound.

"We don't really know what to do here," Anderson, 38, said looking around her porch where damaged home décor and cases of water sit. "We don't know if we should shut the windows again or try to get the door shut or leave it open. I mean what do you do?

Ida has been depreciated from a furious Category 4 hurricane to a Category 3 tropical storm, but its remnants are still expected to bring two to five inches of rain to the flood-battered town.

Anderson is scared. On Saturday, 17 inches of rain caused local creeks to swell and form a flash flood that killed 20 people and damaged hundreds of homes.

John Cohen, a National Weather Service meteorologist in Nashville, is watching Ida as she's set to curve toward Middle Tennessee later Monday night and Tuesday.

Tropical Storm Ida: Remnants to bring up to 5 inches of rain to Middle TN — including flood-hit areas

Waverly floods: Waverly residents request prayers after deadly floods — for themselves and others

"Now as she moves our way she is going to weaken into a depression," Cohen said. "So the system overall is weakening but it is going to bring a lot of rain up here."

The forecast has Waverly in a flash flood watch, as it's expected the city will receive 24 hours of continuous moderate to heavy rain, starting late Monday afternoon into Tuesday night.

Notice of the coming rain was hard to hear for longtime residents like Anderson and her sister, Rachel Story, who lost her home in a 2019 flood.

When Story heard news of Ida, her first thought was: "Here we go again."

Last week's high temperatures and commanding sun helped heal some homes, beginning to dry out lawns and growing debris. But the remnants of the tropical storm threaten to hinder the town as it tries to trudge forward.

Gretchen Turner cleaned and power washed her garage to prepare for the few inches of rain coming her way. On Monday, Turner, 59, continued the grueling task of deciding what few belongings she wanted to salvage -- what was most dear to her. She's covering whatever else she can with tarps.

"It's sort of demoralizing when you're working so hard and then everything gets wet," Turner said with glossing eyes. "...We still have lots of dirt everywhere, but its about to be mud again, you know. So things are gonna get just dirty again."

The wood that made Gretchen Turner's home, along with the kitchen cabinets, the leather couch, the suitcases, nearly everything that once lived inside has been gutted. It's now piled onto her front lawn.

"There's no point in tarping this," Turner said pointing to the growing pile of her destroyed furniture and belongings. "I wish they'd pick it up."

In the last four days, volunteer agencies, the National Guard and the Tennessee Department of Transportation have hauled over 800 truck loads of debris to a landfill in Humphreys County, said Grey Collier, spokesperson for the the county's Emergency Management Agency.

As the remnants of Ida head toward town, Collier said the agencies will continue to remove debris, including what's lodged in the creek. The hope is to prevent any blockage that could cause the creek to swell.

"It shouldn't be a problem, but I kind of feel like everybody in those areas might have a little bit of post traumatic going on," Collier said. "And just with rain coming in, that might, you know trigger a little bit of nervousness."

Most hope that the coming rain won't spur any more physical damage to the town, but emotionally-- it's been done. While volunteers continues to work toward rebuilding, many are exhausted.

As people linger in Waverly Café, a coffeehouse in the center of town, owner Scott Daniel is able to take a pulse on how his neighbors are dealing with the disaster in front of them.

"It comes in waves," he said. "They'll be good, then they'll have those little breakdowns, because it is just overwhelming. They're still lost and not really sure where to go or what to do."

Waverly Police Department will be keeping an eye on the creek and is prepared to help families leave their homes if they need to, although they don't expect that evacuation will be necessary, said Grey Collier, spokesperson for the Humphreys County Emergency Management Agency.

Despite the minimal expected rainfall, some have a plan set in case the rain escalates, like it did last Saturday.

"I already got my bag packed and everything so I'm ready to roll," said Tara Anthony, whose home was damaged by the flood. "You never know."