In Hudson Valley, an expected storm strikes with unexpected, deadly force

It was already raining at 7:50 p.m. Wednesday, when NYPD Det. Fahed Alfalahi headed home from his precinct in Queens.

He'd heard about the storm, of course, but he could have never imagined that his commute home to Pelham would find him shivering in water up to the SUV's steering wheel as floodwaters turned Wolfs Lane into a churning extension of the Hutchinson River.

Hurricane Ida was an expected storm that brought about the deadly unexpected across the Hudson Valley, with a death toll at 10 and counting in New York, including one confirmed death in Westchester, an unidentified man in Elmsford.

As the storm walloped the region, cellphones chimed with flash-flood warnings and alerts and even a tornado warning for New York City.

Before long, roads became rivers and rivers overtook roads. Police and fire dispatchers worked to handle hundreds of calls for crews to perform water rescues in places where there should be no water.

On the Yonkers-Bronxville line, the Sprain Brook Parkway was strewn with cars abandoned by their drivers, sitting in water up to their door handles and higher.

In Rockland County, floodwaters force the New York State Thruway to close in both directions, the highway not high enough.

Rain fell in buckets: nearly 9 inches in Mount Kisco; more than 6 inches in Wappingers Falls; nearly 6 in Vails Gate in Orange County; more than 5 inches in Suffern. In Ulster County, Wallkill saw more than 6 inches of rain.

In Pelham, all that rain ended up in the Hutchinson River and the Hutchinson River ended up on Wolfs Lane, right where Fared Alfalahi's SUV was, nearly home.

He really thought he could make it.

When the smaller car in front of him forged into the standing water, Alfalahi followed. After all, his SUV was larger. But the car in front stopped. And Alfalahi stopped. Then his engine stalled and would not start again.

He stopped in the glow of a stoplight, the wind whipping the rain in sheets.

He opened the door and water rushed in, colder than he would have thought. It continued to rush in, even after he shut the door. Before he knew it, the floodwaters had reached the steering wheel.

He opened the window and climbed up to stand in the open space, to figure out his next step, which would be a wet one no matter where he took it.

Across the street, Cindy Finegan was watching. She had seen rain in her 15 years on Wolfs Lane, but nothing like this. Even Superstorm Sandy — the benchmark of all benchmarks for storms — hadn't been like this, she thought.

Living in a flood zone, Finegan and her neighbors are ready. Their houses have French drains and high-powered sump pumps. They know not to finish their basements, to keep things they treasure upstairs, lest the Hutchinson River overtop its banks and render it all, sodden, to the dumpster.

Still, they watch rainy forecasts warily.

But what Finegan saw out her window was the raging Hutchinson River everywhere she looked, sweeping cars down Wolfs Lane.

She and her family helped three people who were trapped in their cars.

Drone video of the Bronx River and Sprain Brook Parkway after the flood Drone video of the Bronx River and Sprain Brook Parkway after the flood John Meore and Peter Carr, Rockland/Westchester Journal News

Then she saw the man balancing himself, standing in the window of his SUV, battered by wind and rain. As the river began to budge the SUV, he jumped into the water and swam across to Finegan's house, which convinces Finegan she has never seen rain like Ida's before.

She has never had a man swim across the street to her house.

The sump pumps could not keep up with Ida's worst. The river surrounded Finegan's neighbors' homes and found its way into their basements through closed windows, leaving 8 to 10 feet of water, she said. It was like the water was coming up through the tile and grout, she said.

But that was downstairs. At the moment, Finegan was looking at the man swimming across her street, and walking, wading home.

When someone asked for directions to help a sick woman get to New Rochelle, the driver saw that Alfalahi was shivering and offered to give him a ride. They found closed roads at every turn and, eventually, the tired detective ended up walking home after sending them on their way.

When he walked in his door, it was 11 p.m. He was waterlogged and shivering.

The next day, Thursday, Alfala was back on Wolfs Lane, waiting for a tow truck, when Finegan walked over to talk to the man who had swam. This being 2021, she showed him the photo she had taken of him, contemplating his next soggy step. She got his number, and texted it to him.

Because who would believe a guy who says he swam across the street, if he didn't have proof?

The day after

Across the Hudson Valley, those residents who were able to sleep overnight Wednesday — those not kept awake anxiously watching the floodwaters near their houses, to their houses, into their houses — woke Thursday to a bright blue sky reflected in the murky remains of Ida. This is some of what Ida left in its wake:

Elmsford death: Greenburgh Police confirmed a 70-year-old man was found unresponsive behind Pete's Saloon in the village shortly before 6 a.m. He was transported to Westchester Medical Center, where he was pronounced dead.