Harrison mayor says dozens of homes 'flattened' after tornado rips through: updates

HARRISON TWP. - Mullica Hill may have taken the brunt of the blow from former Hurricane Ida Wednesday, with officials reporting extensive damage there.

But the powerful storm punished multiple towns as it passed through the area, toppling trees, cutting power and closing roads.

About a dozen houses were "flattened" in Harrison, with many more reporting a spectrum of damage, Mayor Louis Manzo reported late Wednesday.

Manzo said there were no fatalities. Two people were hospitalized, according to a statement from Gloucester County.

County officials said the storm's impact also was felt across Mantua, Deptford, Wenonah and Woodbury Heights.

"School closures are in effect in these most affected towns," the county said late Wednesday.

"We are asking ALL residents to stay in their houses unless emergency evacuation is needed," it added, noting downed power lines could cause injuries.

Ida to carry drenching rainfall into the Northeast Heavy, tropical rainfall is expected to pour from Ida as the system moves through the Tennessee Valley and into the mid-Atlantic and Northeast. USA TODAY

The National Weather Service said an apparent twister — one of several spotted across South Jersey — caused "significant damage" in the Mullica Hill area around 6:21 p.m.

Gov. Phil Murphy tweeted at 9 p.m. that he had spoken with Manzo "about the devastating tornado" that hit the Gloucester County town.

"We're closely monitoring the situation and will do whatever is needed to support the response & recovery in the days ahead," tweeted Murphy, who was scheduled to tour the hard-hit area Thursday morning.

Possible tornadoes also were reported in Cherry Hill and in towns near the Delaware River in Burlington County.

"This tornado just ripped through our community an hour ago," U.S. Rep Andy Kim, a Moorestown resident, tweeted around 8:15 p.m. above a video of a funnel cloud passing the Burlington-Bristol Bridge.

"We've seen some terrible destruction already," Kim tweeted. "Hoping families are safe and please reach out if help is needed."

The weather agency reported possible tornadoes in Wenonah at 6:27 p.m. and in Cherry Hill at 6:40 p.m. Specific locations for those twisters were not given.

An observer in Florence also reported "a funnel cloud crossing the Delaware River" around 7:10 p.m., the agency said.

Burlington County spokesman Dave Levinsky said, "There have been sightings of a tornado that moved through (the) area of Edgewater Park, Beverly and Burlington."

He said officials "have not confirmed whether it touched down anywhere and we have received no reports of significant damages or injuries."

The incidents occurred while a tornado warning was in effect until 7:15 p.m Wednesday.

All of South Jersey was under a tornado watch for much of Wednesday evening, according to the Westampton-based agency.

Multiple residents reported wild weather conditions in social media posts, including a video that showed a funnel cloud crossing from Edgewater Park into Burlington Township near Salem Road and Handler Drive.

Facebook user Tommy Gannon caught a glimpse of an apparent tornado circling over a building in Sewell.

In Harrison Township, vehicles backed up on Route 322 around 7:30 p.m. as first responders advised nearly all roads leading to Mullica Hill were closed.

"Don't turn right!" screamed a woman manning a stop at Route 322 and Route 667. "It's closed."

Just west of the Sherwin Road intersection, east of Mullica Hill, fallen trees and electrical wires closed Route 322. Firefighters from Glassboro secured the area.

Multiple trees were snapped and twisted along the north side of the highway, which is residential. Severed utility poles were held up by electrical wires.