Jean Lafitte Police Chief Details Catastrophic Flooding From Hurricane Ida: 'This Is Horrible'

As New Orleans residents deal with a parish-wide power outage, small communities just outside the city and its levee protection system are being pummeled by Hurricane Ida, with hundreds of people asking for help but unable to be reached due to catastrophic flooding from several feet of stormwater.

That includes the town of Jean Lafitte, as well as Crown Point, lower Lafitte and Barataria, all of south Jefferson Parish, where sustained winds reached up to 70 mph and floodwater was reportedly between 10 to 12 feet.

Jean Lafitte Police Chief Marcel Rodriguez believes there are at least 400 people left in the area who, for financial or physical reasons, were not able to heed the mandatory evacuation issued ahead of the storm. Sergeant Jason Leorwald said the police department is working to try to make a path to get to those residents and resources to them Sunday night and are opening search and rescue cases as well.

"They're scared because they've never seen this," Leorwald said. "They've never faced a storm like this before. Our residents have gone through this their whole lives and they didn't think that this would happen."

For the residents that stayed, Leorwald called it a "personal decision," noting that some people couldn't afford to leave.

In an interview with Gulf States Newsroom reporter Shalina Chatlani, Rodriguez details information he's received from police officers working in Jean Lafitte and explains how the situation is likely more catastrophic than when Hurricane Katrina hit the area 16 years ago.

Here is a transcription of their conversation:

Shalina Chatlani: Hi, Sheriff Rodriguez. Thanks for talking to me about the situation in Jean Lafitte, which is closer to the coast than New Orleans. I know that you're not there right now. You're in the sheriff's office, but you're getting reports and deputies. What are you hearing about the situation down there?

Marcel Rodriguez: I'm hearing that it's not good. They've got people that's trapped back there and there's no way to get home. And the last I heard in lower Lafitte is they had about 10 feet of water. But from what I just got off the phone when I was interrupted earlier, the water's still piling in. So I don't know where it's going to stop. And, you know, I'm 70 years old. I grew up back there and I've never seen anything like this. This is a storm from the left side of Lafitte. Everybody knows that it would be bad. But, you know, this is a Cat 4, from what I understand is still a Cat 4. This is going to be a nightmare.

SC: And I take it you're getting calls from residents as well. What are you hearing?