'It was wild': Tugboat crew rides out Hurricane Ida near landfall at Port Fourchon

What began as a routine job last week for the tugboat Brittany Lynn became a frightening struggle against Hurricane Ida.

Shannon Dryden, the 40-year-old relief captain of the Brittany Lynn, received his assignment Aug. 25 to pull a barge down from Bourg to Port Fourchon. The disturbance in the Gulf of Mexico that would morph into Hurricane Ida was days away from landfall.

"We were supposed to bring a barge down here to Port Fourchon to get loaded and get back out," Dryden said during a phone interview Tuesday. "We were trying to get loaded and tried to get back out before the storm hit. Well, we got down here and it was raining and there were thunderstorms. We just didn't have enough time to get out."

Ida strengthened to a Category 4 hurricane as it churned toward Louisiana's southeast coast. The storm swept ashore near Port Fourchon about 11:55 a.m. Sunday packing 150-mph winds and a storm surge forecasters and local officials estimated was at least 12 feet.

There was nothing the Brittany Lynn's three-member crew could do except batten down the hatches and hope for the best, said Dryden, who is from Deridder.

"I definitely didn't want to be down here because I knew this area was close to getting a direct hit," he said. "You couldn't see the debris flying through the air. We were tied up against a dock. There was a trailer of offices out there about 600 feet from us and you couldn't see it during the storm. When the winds died down you could see right through that trailer. The walls were gone."

As the boat rocked against Ida's ferocious 150 mph winds, the unthinkable happened, Dryden said.

"At one point there when the eye was just about to come over us, there were some boats that got loose and hit our barges that we were tied to, which broke us loose," he said. "I was looking at my chart system and could tell we were starting to move. I said to the head captain, 'We broke loose, man. Those boats behind us done hit us and broke us loose.' "

It was the only time during the harrowing ordeal that Dryden said he was scared.

"The only time I got really worried was when we broke loose," he said. "When it broke our barges loose and we went across the canal, I couldn't tell which way we were going. All I could tell is that we were moving. I didn't know if we were going to have to abandon the ship or what was fixing to happen."

Ida's winds tapered about 30 minutes later, which gave the crew just enough time to move the barges back to the dock and get secured, Dryden said.

But Ida wasn't through with Port Fourchon just yet.

"No sooner than we got them secured, the back side of the eye came and we were in for another ride for about three or four hours," Dryden said. "The back end was way worse. I was concerned, but at least it was blowing us to the dock and not away from it. It was wild."

There were about 40 boats carrying around 300 people combined at Port Fourchon when Ida made landfall Sunday, said Chett Chiasson, executive director of the Greater Lafourche Port Commission.

The port, at the southern tip of Lafourche Parish, serves as the service hub for almost all of the Gulf of Mexico oilfield.

"There were no injuries for our employees and family and to my knowledge no major injuries in this area," Chiasson said. "There will not be movement in the port until we can assess the navigable waterways for obstructions."

As for Dryden, he said he will never ride out a storm on a boat again.