Hurricane Ida Recovery Aid is Too Little, Too Late, New York Storm Victims Say

Amrita Bhagwandin is between a rock and a cracked foundation.

Her home in low-lying Hollis flooded when remnants of Hurricane Ida pounded the city in early September. She counts herself as lucky that she received about $17,000 from FEMA — much more than most of her Queens neighbors.

Bhagwandin, 51, had several contractors come out to assess the damage, and none wanted to touch the severely compromised foundation. Instead, they advised her to fill the basement and lift the house, a project that would cost an estimated $300,000.

And that's on top of what she's already spent on repairs after repeated floods. She keeps a trove of manilla folders filled with photos of damage.

"I don't understand what kind of life this is in New York City," Bhagwandin said. "Do you know how scary it is? I run out of the house every time it rains. I cannot take a summer vacation because I have to stay and watch my house."

Bhagwandin is one of many New Yorkers whose homes were damaged in the deadly Sept. 1 storm and who say they are still waiting for adequate assistance, more than three months later.

Renters and homeowners are facing different obstacles — and seek different types of relief. Bhagwandin wants the city to buy her home. Tenants, meanwhile, need their apartments renovated or a whole new place to live.

Yet storm victims on all sides say their ongoing shared experiences, including temporary displacement and long-term uncertainty, underscore a housing crisis exacerbated by climate change.

And despite recently extended state and federal timelines to apply for financial assistance, storm-slammed New Yorkers charge they've been largely forsaken.

"This is what's very painful here, that we have to be chasing all these politicians to get this work done," Bhagwandin said. "There's no urgency."

'We Live Day to Day'

For renters, securing new housing in New York's expensive market has been particularly difficult — especially in the wake of the storm, which killed 13 people, 11 of whom died in basement apartments.

Heidi Pashko and her husband have been living with their adult son and his two young children on Long Island ever since Ida hit. Their rented Forest Hills one-bedroom apartment — their home for more than 40 years — is still a wreck.

Pashko, 67, was used to paying "fabulous rent" for her spacious first-floor unit with high ceilings, but her hunt for furnished studios and one-bedrooms in Queens and Long Island has been discouraging. Nothing is as good as what she'd had — and everything costs at least double what she'd been paying.

"I feel bad sleeping on their couch, but I have nowhere to go," Pashko said. "As long as my son will have me, I'm staying here. I'm with the grandkids every day, taking care of them."

Pashko's retirement from her job as a public school aide began the day of the storm, so money is tight. Before Ida, she'd just renovated the apartment and purchased a new stove and refrigerator.

"It's hard," she added. "I don't know what my plans are. I don't know what I'm doing. We live from day to day."

Pashko said she and her husband received "a couple thousand dollars" from FEMA and are in the process of appealing to get more.

'Emotionally, You're Done'

As of Dec. 3, more than 88,700 people in New York City had applied for assistance from FEMA, with $163.7 million approved, according to Kevin Sur, an agency spokesperson. Sur declined to specify how many applicants were approved or denied funds.

Data FEMA provided to Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-Queens, The Bronx) and Jamaal Bowman (D-The Bronx, Westchester) showed that about half of applicants in Queens and the Bronx received funding.

The two politicians sent a letter to FEMA late last month asking the agency to provide sufficient funds to help storm-battered New Yorkers "rebuild their homes and restore damaged property."

Applicants can appeal FEMA's decision within 60 days.

That's what Tina Jimenez, 62 of East Elmhurst is doing. But it's not easy.

"Emotionally, you're done," Jimenez said. "This added burden — you have to explain yourself and explain yourself and everybody's giving you a different answer."