What's That Smell? Garbage From Hurricane Ida Still Hasn't Been Picked Up In New Orleans

It's been nearly three weeks since Hurricane Ida battered New Orleans, and while power has been restored to the city and businesses are closer than ever to reopening to pre-Ida standards, residents are still waiting for routine trash pickups.

While branches and storm-damaged property make up the bulk of the curbside collections, some residents haven't seen a trash pickup since the storm.

Others have seen a steep decline in the number of weekly visits and can now smell their city-administered cans baking in the late summer heat. There are even some mounds of garbage that have sat in the front of residents' homes well before the aftermath of the Category 4 storm.

Due to labor issues, there are hardly any employees available to pick up the rotting trash. Mayor LaToya Cantrell has announced the Department of Sanitation will allow residents to dispose of bagged household trash at the Elysian Fields Transfer Station.

Beginning this morning at 11AM, the City of New Orleans Department of Sanitation will allow residents to dispose of bagged household garbage at the Elysian Fields Transfer Station

A worker at the facility said the first day of the program saw around 200 vehicles. In the first hour of Thursday, he saw around 100 cars, including one person with a flatbed trailer that had collected their entire neighborhood's trash cans.

Ryan Nelsen Vehicles line up to drop off trash at the Elysian Fields Transfer Station, on Thursday, Sept. 16, 2021.

The city's trash collection agency Metro Service Group had fallen behind on collections before Ida as well. Workers for the agency held a strike in May 2020 for a higher salary than $10.25 and protection equipment against COVID-19.

In a press release Wednesday, Cantrell said that staffing remains an issue due to the national labor shortage due to the pandemic.

The city has contracted Ramelli Waste, LLC, from Kenner to aid Richard's Disposal Inc., and Metro Services Group is getting the help of seven trucks from IV Waste. But city officials said that finding additional outside bidders has been difficult. On Wednesday, the city extended the contract three days in hopes of finding more bids.

No getting around it: The situation stinks!!️

At its core, this is a capacity issue. There was a limited workforce for this sector before the storm, and Ida's impact only exacerbated the problem.

Even before Ida, residents in the Bywater say they were only seeing Metro trash collectors around twice a month. After Ida's landfall in late August, many in the neighborhood have not had their trash collected even once.