Union County Residents Can Now Apply for Hurricane Ida Relief until January 5, 2022

In-person FEMA office in Union County will remain open until further notice.

Union County, NJ – The Union County Board of County Commissioners advises residents impacted by Hurricane Ida that the deadline for applying for individual assistance through the Federal Emergency Management Agency has been extended again. The new deadline to apply is Wednesday, January 5, 2022.

In addition, the FEMA Disaster Recovery Center in Union County will remain until further notice, to provide residents with in-person assistance if needed.

"This new extension will help ensure that everyone who was impacted by the storm has an opportunity to apply for federal assistance, including those who need in-person assistance with determining their eligibility and filling out forms," said Commissioner Board Chairman Alexander Mirabella.

The FEMA Disaster Recover Center for Union County is located in the O'Donnell Dempsey Senior Community Center, at 618 Salem Avenue in Elizabeth. It is open from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays.

Federal disaster assistance for individuals and families can include money for rent, essential home repairs, personal property losses, and other serious disaster-related needs not covered by insurance.

To apply for disaster assistance with FEMA online, visit DisasterAssistance.gov, use the FEMA app, or call the FEMA Helpline at 800-621-3362 (TTY 800-462-7585).

A free legal service is available from Legal Services of New Jersey for Union County residents facing legal issues due to the remnants of Hurricane Ida.

Examples of include assistance with benefits, insurance claims, replacement of personal documents, and counseling on creditor-debtor and landlord-tenant issues.

To submit a request for assistance visit online at lsnjlawhotline.org or call 888-576-5529 (888-LSNJ-LAW) between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:30 p.m.

The service is a partnership between the New Jersey State Bar Association, the American Bar Association's Young Lawyers Division and FEMA.

Union County is one of 12 counties in New Jersey designated for disaster relief through FEMA after the remnants of Hurricane Ida swept through the region in September, in the form of a destructive tropical storm. It is considered one of the deadliest storms in the state's history.