What we know about US service members killed in Kabul airport attack

Nearly 200 people were killed in Thursday's explosion, including 13 U.S. troops.

What we know about US service members killed in Kabul airport attack

Thirteen American troops were among the nearly 200 people killed in an attack at the Kabul airport in Afghanistan on Thursday.

A detonation set off by an ISIS-K suicide bomber near the airport's Abbey Gate amid evacuation efforts killed at least 170 Afghans, including several children, as well as two Brits and the child of a British citizen, according to Afghan and British officials.

President Joe Biden called the U.S. service members killed in the attack "heroes who have been engaged in a dangerous, selfless mission to save the lives of others."

Those killed included 11 Marines, as well as an Army soldier and a Navy medic, U.S. officials said.

"Those warriors who died gave their lives to save thousands of men, women and children, Americans and Afghans alike," Adm. Mike Gilday, the chief of naval operations, said in a statement. "Their courage and selflessness represent the highest ideals of America. We pay solemn tribute to their sacrifice."

The names of the service members were released 24 hours after next-of-kin notifications, while some of those killed had also been identified by family and officials.

Navy Corpsman Maxton Soviak

Navy Corpsman Maxton Soviak, 22, of Berlin Heights, Ohio, was "very proud" to serve his country, his mother said in a statement to ABC News.

"He was very passionate about helping his fellow Americans and trying to get them home safely," Rachel Soviak said. "There are no words to describe the pain our family is feeling. There will forever be a hole in our hearts."

Soviak enlisted in September 2017 and was assigned to the 1st Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, and based in Camp Pendleton, California. He served as a hospital corpsman, or medic.

"He was excited about the opportunities the Navy would offer him and planned to make the Navy a career," his family said in a statement. "We are incredibly proud of his service to our country."

He is survived by his mother, father and 12 brothers and sisters.

"Words cannot express how heartbroken we are with this news and we will miss Max tremendously," the family said. "Maxton was an awesome young man who was well liked in the community, as evidenced by the outpouring of condolences from teachers, coaches, employers, family and friends."

The family is praying for the troops to arrive home safely.

Max Soviak was killed along with 12 other U.S. service members in a suicide bombing outside Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, Afghanistan, Aug. 26, 2021. Provided by U.S. Navy

Soviak was a 2017 graduate of Edison High School in Milan, Ohio, where he played football and wrestled. School leaders remembered him as "full of life in everything he did."

"Max was a good student who was active in sports and other activities throughout his school career," Superintendent Thomas Roth said in a statement. "He was well respected and liked by everyone who knew him."

Marine David Espinoza

Marine Corps Lance Cpl. David Espinoza, 20, was a native of Laredo, Texas, according to Rep. Henry Cuellar of Texas, who released a statement confirming his death.

"Mr. Espinoza embodied the values of America: grit, dedication, service, and valor," Cuellar said. "When he joined the military after high school, he did so with the intention of protecting our nation and demonstrating his selfless acts of service."

Espinoza was assigned to the 2nd Battalion, 1st Marine Regiment, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, and based in Camp Pendleton, California.

He graduated from Lyndon B. Johnson High School in Laredo in 2019.