Afghanistan: Blasts rock Kabul Airport – DW – 08

Kabul's airport has been hit by twin blasts, leaving dozens of Afghan civilians and at least 13 US soldiers dead. The "Islamic State Khorasan" (IS-K) has claimed responsibility for the attack.

Two explosions outside Kabul's airport injured and killed at least 73 people, including 60 civilians, on Thursday.

General Kenneth McKenzie, the Commander of US Central Command, told a briefing at the Pentagon that 13 US service members were killed and 15 were injured in the suicide bombings. McKenzie said the US military is treating the wounded as well as Afghan civilians.

"We are prepared to continue the mission," McKenzie said.

President Joe Biden: 'America will not be intimidated'

In a White House address on Thursday, President Joe Biden said the US soldiers who died in the blasts gave their lives "in service of liberty and service of America."

He vowed to continue evacuations from Kabul: "America will not be intimidated."

"We will not be deterred by terrorists. We will not let them stop our mission," the president added.

The commander-in-chief vowed revenge on those behind the attack. "I have also ordered my commanders to develop operational plans to strike ISIS leadership, assets and facilities," Biden said, after the "Islamic State" (IS) claimed responsibility for the blasts.

The twin blasts came after the US warned of a terror threat against the airport amid its ongoing evacuation and advised its citizens against travel to the airport.

Intelligence warnings pointed towards the "Islamic State" (IS). IS later claimed responsibility for the attack in a post confirmed by the SITE intelligence group which monitors violent jihadist propaganda.

What happened during the blasts?

One explosion hit outside Hamid Karzai International Airport's Abbey Gate, and another occurred outside the nearby Baron Hotel. The US embassy issued an alert, saying there had also been reports of gunfire.

A "complex attack" took place Thursday that left 12 US military serrvice members killed and 15 wounded at the Abbey Gate and adjacent Baron Hotel at the Kabul airport

A Taliban official said that between 13 and 20 people were killed in the attacks, however footage from the scene and reports show a much higher death toll.

Emergency NGO, an Italian humanitarian organization, reported that 60 people arrived at their Kabul Surgical Center with six reportedly dead upon arrival.

Journalist Ali Latifi in Kabul told DW, "We keep seeing ambulances and cars bringing the injured and we see children come in injured. It seems right now that it really is just local residents directing traffic and making sure that the injured can make it into the hospital."

He added, "We don't really see much of a Taliban presence right now."

There was little security presence in the area where the suicide bombings took place, Kabul resident Abdul Matin Amiri told DW.

"There was no security at all," Amiri said. "I got there with a lot of luggage and bags with me [so] it means everybody could go there easily [and] carry any kind of explosive."

Taliban condemns attack, Pentagon prepared for action

On Twitter, a Taliban spokesman said the terror group that seized control of Afghanistan "strongly condemns the bombing of civilians at the Kabul airport," while a Taliban official later told Turkey's HaberTurk TV that "because of the presence of foreign forces that such attacks take place."

General McKenzie vowed retaliation over the attack.

"We are working very hard right now to determine attribution, to determine who is associated with this cowardly attack, and we're prepared to take action against them," McKenzie said.