Kabul airport attack: Pentagon releases identities of US service members

CNN — The Department of Defense has released the names of the 13 US service members who were killed in an attack outside Kabul's airport on Thursday, as the US and other Western countries raced to evacuate their citizens and allies out of Afghanistan.

Here's what we know about some of those who gave their lives in service to their country.

Ryan Knauss

Army Staff Sgt. Ryan Knauss, 23, of Corryton, in east Tennessee, enlisted right after graduating from Gibbs High School, his grandmother told CNN affiliate WVLT. He joined the Army in May 2016.

He had previously spent nine months in Afghanistan; he was deployed again amid the US withdrawal and had only been back in the country for a week when the attack happened, his grandmother said.

Knauss' grandparents said his role was to check people's tickets and paperwork before they boarded flights leaving Afghanistan, WVLT reported.

US Rep. Tim Burchett, whose district includes Knauss' hometown, said in a statement, "Ryan gave his life outside that airport helping people he didn't know get to safety. This is what true heroism looks like and Ryan's sacrifice will never be forgotten. The Knauss family is in my prayers." Knauss is survived by his wife.

Knauss was assigned to 9th PSYOP Battalion, 8th PSYOP Group, Fort Bragg, North Carolina. He was the only member of the Army to be killed; the others were a Navy corpsman and 11 Marines.

Rylee McCollum

Roice McCollum, the older sister of US Marine Rylee McCollum, told CNN her brother, who was 20 years old, was "an amazing man with a passion for the Marines."

He was a lance corporal, she added.

"He was a son, a brother, a husband and a father with a baby due in just 3 weeks," she told CNN in a statement, adding that Rylee had wanted to be a Marine his whole life, so much so that even as a toddler he carried around a toy rifle in his diapers and cowboy boots.

Rylee McCollum Courtesy McCollum Family

Roice said that her brother, a native of Wyoming, was on his first deployment and had been determined to be infantry. He was sent to Afghanistan when the evacuation began and had been manning the check point when the suicide bomb went off, she said.

"Rylee wanted to be a history teacher and a wrestling coach when he finished serving his country," she said. "Rylee will always be a hero, not just for the ultimate sacrifice he made for our country but for the way he impacted every life around him for the better. Making us stronger, kinder, teaching us to love deeper. We love you Rylee."

He was tough but a kind and loving person that "made an impact on everyone he met," his sister said.

Two GoFundMe pages have been created for McCollum's family.

Daegan Page

Cpl. Daegan Page was 23 years old, his family said in a statement provided to CNN.

"Daegan will always be remembered for his tough outer shell and giant heart," the family statement said. "Our hearts are broken, but we are thankful for the friends and family who are surrounding us during this time."

They said he planned to possibly become a lineman once his Marine enlistment was finished.

Daegan Page was 23 years old, his family said in a statement to CNN Courtesy Page Family

Page was raised partly in Iowa and near Omaha, Nebraska, and served at Camp Pendleton in California. He had four siblings, the statement added.

"He loved hunting and spending time outdoors with his dad, as well as being out on the water," the family said. "He was also an animal lover with a soft spot in his heart for dogs."

Page joined the US Marine Corps after graduating from Millard South High School, the statement added.