Biden honours US troops killed in Kabul airport attack

In a silence broken only by the sobs of bereaved families, Joe Biden stood Sunday, hand over his heart, to pay tribute as the remains of the US service members killed in the Kabul bombing attack were transferred from a military C-17 cargo plane to a closely parked row of gray hearses.

US President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden attend the dignified transfer of the remains of a fallen service member at Dover Air Force Base in Dover, Delaware, August, 29, 2021, one of the 13 members of the US military killed in Afghanistan last week.

In a jolting juxtaposition, the grim rite played out even as Biden faced the fiercest criticism of his presidency over his handling of the exit from Afghanistan.

The moving ritual played out on the tarmac of Dover Air Force Base in Delaware, with Biden and his wife Jill standing somberly to the side as specially trained white-gloved military crews, stepping softly and in perfect unison, transferred the remains in special metal cases to the waiting hearses.

Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin, Secretary of State Antony Blinken and other military officers and dignitaries were part of a small group joining Biden, all in black masks.

Under a heavy gray sky, family members stood at a distance, protected from the glare of cameras.

The Dover base, on the US East Coast about two hours from Washington, is synonymous with the painful return of service members who have fallen in combat.

Meeting the remains of fallen service members at Dover is considered one of the most solemn duties of a US president.

Biden, during a speech on Hurricane Ida later Sunday in Washington, DC called the soldiers—some of whom were aged just 20, the length of the war in Afghanistan—"heroes."

"Let's keep them in our prayers," he said, declining to take further questions on Afghanistan.

For Biden—whose late son Beau Biden served in Iraq—the loss must have been particularly painful.

In addition to the 13 American service members, more than 100 Afghans died in the Kabul airport attack Thursday, blamed on a regional arm of the Islamic State.

The US has since launched at least two drone strikes on Islamic State targets, including one Sunday against a vehicle said to be threatening the Kabul airport.