Last Canadian military flight leaves Afghanistan, hours before Kabul airport attack

OTTAWA — Canada's military mission in Afghanistan ended Thursday, hours before suicide bombers attacked crowds at Kabul airport, killing several American marines, and leaving an unknown number of Canadians and their families trapped. The withdrawal occurred as Canada and its military allies braced for imminent attack and to allow for the American-led mission to eventually meet its Aug. 31 deadline for departure. The Associated Press reported that U.S. officials said 11 American marines and one navy medic were killed in the attack by a pair of suicide bombers and gunmen in the crowd clamouring outside Kabul airport. It's not known how many other U.S. personnel were injured. An unknown number of Canadian military personnel stayed behind to assist the American withdrawal, and all were "safe and accounted for" after the Thursday bombing, the Canadian Forces said on Twitter. Canada's departure, its fiery aftermath, and the concerns about those left behind laid bare the raw emotional scars of the firmly severed connection in the long-suffering country. There, Canadian blood was spilled alongside its western allies to help the Afghans build a prosperous country after the Taliban was routed in 2001. Its estimated more than 47,000 Afghan civilians, as well as over 66,000 members of the Afghan national military and police also died in the war.

"I'll just say from our perspective, warfare is always chaotic, and unpredictable. And hindsight is 2020. Based on the information we had at the time, yes, we were surprised by the speed of the of the Taliban takeover of Kabul. And I'm sure there'll be much ink spilt about this," said Gen. Wayne Eyre, the acting chief of the defence staff. Eyre said Canadians were among the last to leave, that military personnel are taking the withdrawal personally and many will feel guilty that they had to leave people behind. Feds hold auto-theft summit next month to crack down on stolen cars sent abroad He said Canada brought roughly 3,700 people out of Afghanistan, which fell to the Taliban earlier this month.