Cousin of East Bay man who recently escaped Afghanistan killed in Kabul airport attack

SAN LEANDRO, Calif. (KGO) -- Only 72 hours after first connecting with Qiamuddin Safi, the East Bay man who escaped Afghanistan less than one week ago, his absolute worst fear came true.

"I told you two days ago, we're not safe," Safi told ABC7 News. "My family's not safe."

Safi's brother and four cousins were at the Kabul airport on Thursday morning. According to Safi, they had their approved Special Immigration Visas (SIV) in-hand.

In video taken by Qiamuddin Safi in early August, viewers can hear the echoing sounds of unrest in Afghanistan.

"I heard the news, something can happen. I was so scared, I told my brother, 'Just be careful. If you see an American, just give these documents. They can let you guys can go inside,'" he explained.

Safi said the men were in line at Abbey Gate, where one of two deadly morning blasts killed dozens. Among the dead, killed by suicide bombers, was Safi's cousin. Safi said his cousin was a longtime interpreter for the U.S. Army.

"My last conversation with him was four in the morning. He told me, 'I'm in the line,'" Safi said.

Safi said his brother and another cousin are now in the ICU. He said two other cousins are hospitalized.

"Everybody is confused. Everybody's in the hospital," Safi shared. "Half of my family is running to the hospital."

On Tuesday, ABC7 News connected with Safi, who shared pictures and videos of his escape from Afghanistan. He described his fear for the family members he left behind, including his father and extended family.

Thursday's developments have now added to the heartache being felt by the Afghan community here at home.

"We are in pain. We are hurting. We have fear," Harris Mojadedi with the Afghan Coalition told ABC7 News. "We all have loved ones back home in Afghanistan who desperately want to seek freedom and refuge. And right now, we feel like they're being held hostage."

"This is one case and indicative of so many other U.S. citizens there," said Sara Fain, an attorney with the Immigration Institute of the Bay Area. "It is not that they were on vacation and did not get the memo were going to leave the country. It was that they had to make a difficult decision. Do we leave family members to get to safety?"

Mojadedi is putting focus on those desperate to keep their families from danger. He pointed to the special distinction with this group of refugees.