The treacherous journey into Kabul airport to escape Taliban-controlled Afghanistan

KABUL — Two days after the Taliban's sudden takeover of Kabul, we were given a chance to escape: seats on a chartered plane to Qatar set to take off from the city's airport within hours. Security around the airport was crumbling, and the future of my Afghan colleagues was increasingly uncertain. They had received Taliban threats in the past, and both have young families for whom they fear the most.

Reaching the airport would be the most difficult part, and it was something we decided we had to do together.

We hadn't seen each other since the Taliban took over the capital, and the reunion — after so much anxiety, fear and change — was emotional. On a dusty gravel road lined by concrete barriers outside the airport, we embraced. It was one of the first moments of joy and relief in a long time. Everyone was in tears.

Next, we had to make a run for the military side of the airport, a part of the city quickly becoming the most dangerous.

The night before, Taliban fighters had stormed a crowd waiting outside the terminal, beating men, women and children attempting to flee the country. By morning, the militants had set up checkpoints and deployed dozens of fighters to block roads leading to the airport. One of those checkpoints was a just a few hundred yards from the compound where I was staying.

"Why do you want to leave the country? What are you, traitors?" the militants screamed at a crowd forming beside one of the main airport entrances, known as Abbey gate, in a scene witnessed by Washington Post reporter Aziz Tassal. One fighter slapped a man who approached the barrier, and another was struck with the butt of a rifle.

Washington Post editors had arranged seats for staffers and their families on a charter flight set to leave within hours, but getting to the flight would require entering through that same gate. Our chances of making it through the gate safely and then onto the plane were slim. But the crowds at the airport were growing by the day, and the Taliban was becoming more brutal. We decided it was worth a shot.

We were traveling with eight small children, the youngest not even a year old, and were most concerned about their safety. Two nights before, Tassal and his young daughter were beaten by Taliban fighters as they waited on the civilian side of the airport for a flight that never materialized. That experience, my colleagues later said, only hardened their resolve to escape, but it left their families terrified of returning to the scene.

"I will never forget how they beat my small daughter," Tassal said, showing me the dark blue bruise on her side. "They will never change. My country is gone forever."

It was possible that we could experience a repeat of that night. But I felt that if I was with the group — the only Post employee left in the country with an American passport — we would be more likely to get inside the base. And if we rented armored cars, we would be partially protected from an attack if the road was breached.