Lawrence mourns Marine who died working with women, children in Kabul airport attack

Rosario, 25, was among two female Marine sergeants killed in the suicide bombing at Abbey Gate, the US Marine Corps said Saturday. The military listed her name as Johanny Rosario Pichardo, though her family uses a shortened name, Johanny Rosario, according to Lawrence Mayor Kendrys Vasquez.

On Thursday, her life ended as she performed a volunteer assignment for the US Marine Corps that only women could do in conservative Afghanistan: screen women and children trying to flee the country from Hamid Karzai International Airport.

As a teenager, Johanny Rosario devoted herself to service, enrolling in Junior ROTC at Lawrence High School.

The other female Marine killed in the attack was Sergeant Nicole L. Gee, 23, of Sacramento, Calif. The bombing took the lives of 13 US service members, including 11 Marines, and as many as 169 Afghans.

Rosario's "service was not only crucial to evacuating thousands of women and children, but epitomizes what it means to be a Marine: putting herself in danger for the protection of American values so that others might enjoy them," Marine First Lieutenant John "Jack" Coppolasaid Saturday in a statement. "She is a hero, and her legacy will never be forgotten."

Outside Lawrence City Hall Saturday afternoon, officials said the community will honor her.

"This is a time for us to come together as one community to pay tribute to the heroic actions of Johanny, who in the spirit of a true Lawrencian gave her all to give refuge to those in need," Vasquez said at a news conference conducted in English and Spanish.

He said he met Friday with Rosario's mother and sister, who have asked for privacy.

Rosario's mother "spoke of her daughter as a vibrant young person who wanted to give back to the community," Vasquez said. "And as a result of that it is her mother's desire that Johanny will be brought back to the city of Lawrence as the hero she is."

The Marines said Rosario spent 6 1/2 years in the military and served as a supply chief for the 5th Marine Expeditionary Brigade based in the Persian Gulf nation of Bahrain.

On May 29, her brigade named her "Gator of the Week." In a Facebook post, the brigade said Rosario Pichardo handled the supply section's daily administrative functions and noted her "attention to detail and expertise" in handling financial matters.

"Congratulations on your hard work and valuable contributions to the mission," the brigade wrote.

Her other military accolades include two Navy and Marine Corps Achievement medals, two Marine Corps Good Conduct medals, the Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, National Defense Service Medal, and two letters of appreciation.

Retired US Army Major Kathleen Romano, who led Lawrence High's Junior ROTC program when Rosario was enrolled, said she was a "true role model" to younger students, particularly female cadets.

"She was a smart, energetic, natural leader," Romano said Saturday. "She was so excited about becoming a Marine and she had a commanding presence about her. When she walked into the room, everybody noticed her."