Americans watched the Capitol riot in 'horror' and 'disgust.' Here's what they told us.

CNN — Sadness, fear and outrage.

Calls to "lock them up," and yet ... also "heartbreak" at the state of the nation.

Comparisons to 9/11.

We asked our viewers how they felt as they watched the chaotic scenes of a pro-Trump mob breaching the nation's Capitol on January 6. Usually a ceremonial day – with little fanfare in previous years – when Congress meets to certify the results of the election. Now, a day that will go down as one of the darkest in America's history.

We received more than 7,000 responses. Here's a snapshot of what you told us.

It's a turning point.

Along with tears and anger, many of our viewers told us January 6 is a day they won't forget.

Pam B., Effort, Pennsylvania

"The saddest and most upsetting day regarding our country, in my lifetime. Our democracy was at stake, and the sitting president supported all of this. I was angry, afraid, but mostly angry. That nobody reined this President in months/years prior to this says a lot about the Republicans' inability to be objective. And yesterday was the icing on the cake. How many lives must be threatened before Trump is stopped? I live in a great amount of fear now ... as the emotions of the people rioting will, no doubt, trickle down to residents in my community."

Janet B., Las Vegas, Nevada

"I was watching the confirmation process and saw the Capitol, MY Capitol, being stormed. I told my husband that, after watching many movies with foreign agents attacking the White House, I never expected to see so-called Americans attacking. We wept."

Ken A., Memphis, Tennessee

"I am so totally disgusted and disappointed. So many people I know and consider friends, are in total support of Trump. They consider the people who invaded the Capitol as patriots and that the election was a fraud. Things will never be the same."

Jake, Indianapolis

"My wife calls me a robot because I don't show my emotions very often. Yesterday, on my drive home, I was so angry with the terrorists who desecrated our Temple of Liberty, I cried. This was almost as surreal as 9/11. I was texting with my British friend who, along with his wife, just became permanent residents. I apologized to him for what he was seeing. This is the United States of America. We do not act this this. We are the example to the world of what freedom and democracy look like. Not by screaming, or bravado, or force, but by going about our business and letting our normal be how we show the world ... this is how it is done, this is who we are. Yesterday, we lost this. Yesterday, America failed."

You hold Trump accountable and want action.

The overwhelming majority of our viewers hold President Trump responsible for what happened and want him removed from office.