A convoy to the Kabul airport, hostile Taliban and the faint hope that the gates to escape would swing open

Guys, other uncoordinated buses are swamping Taliban on checkpoints so they are getting pissed and turning everyone away. 9:00 a.m.

The Taliban said turn around. Didn't let the big bus through... They said they would beat us badly if we don't go. Aug. 25 8:38 a.m. AFT

For those who made it out on the airlift from Kabul, their fate was often determined by a combination of courage, split-second choices and chance.

A convoy to the Kabul airport, hostile Taliban and the faint hope that the gates to escape would swing open

A month before the Taliban seized Kabul, a letter appeared on the doorstep of Sara Qaderi's home in the city. The militants knew she was working for a U.S.-funded research program, the letter stated. It was only a matter of time before they killed her.

Qaderi immediately thought about leaving Afghanistan, but had no place to go.

Now it was Aug. 15 and the government was collapsing. Taliban fighters were streaming into the capital. Qaderi, a 24-year-old agricultural scientist, raced out of her office and into traffic-choked streets; her normal 10-minute commute by car stretched to three panic-filled hours. When she finally reached the safety of her living room, her parents and siblings were already gathered there.

"We need to get out," Qaderi said.

The largest airlift evacuation of civilians in American history was about to begin. By the time it was finished, more than 120,000 people had been spirited to safety in a 17-day operation that President Biden deemed "an extraordinary success."

But it was also a terrifying, bloody crisis that often overwhelmed the capacity of the U.S. military and diplomatic corps. Instead of an orderly exit, a mad rush for the airport left many behind and others dead in a suicide bombing that claimed the lives of 13 U.S. service members and more than 170 Afghans.

In a matter of days, thousands of families were divided, with no immediate prospect of reunion, and a continents-spanning diaspora was born. Lives, such as Qaderi's, were indelibly altered, their trajectories determined by a rough combination of courage, split-second choices and chance.

As the United States retreated, thousands of Afghans who had assisted its mission in ways large and small over the preceding 20 years were left feeling abandoned and betrayed. A motley collection of volunteer groups emerged to try to fill the void. Driven by a combination of duty, embarrassment and guilt, these veterans, aid workers and average citizens banded together to save as many people as they could before the U.S. military withdrew.

The groups relied on cellphones and ad hoc online networks to communicate directly with Afghans, foreign diplomats and frustrated military officials at the airport. Often, they were the Afghans' only hope for escape.