US completes evacuation of embassy in Afghanistan as flag comes down at diplomatic compound

CNN — The American flag at the US embassy in Kabul was taken down Sunday, marking a final step in the evacuation of the diplomatic compound as the Biden administration rushed another 1,000 troops into Afghanistan to manage the sudden departure of embassy personnel and other staff days earlier than US officials initially projected.

The US scrambled to evacuate staff and top officials from its embassy in Afghanistan Sunday as Taliban fighters entered the city, senior Afghan government officials fled the country and gunfire was heard at Kabul airport, multiple sources told CNN.

As the situation deteriorated, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin ordered the deployment of 1,000 more US troops into Afghanistan, rerouting them from their initial destination in Kuwait, a defense official told CNN. The new orders bring the total number of US troops expected in the country to 6,000.

The US bolstered its military posture in the country as Afghan officials handed over the Presidential Palace in Kabul to the Taliban, a transition carried live on the television network al Jazeera, which reported that three Afghan officials were present for the ceremony.

Early Sunday, two sources familiar with the situation told CNN that the plan was to pull all US personnel from the embassy in Kabul over the next 72 hours. Hours later, most US embassy staff had been moved to Kabul airport for flights out of the country.

By early Monday morning in Afghanistan, or 5 p.m. Sunday ET, the US had airlifted about 500 embassy staff from Afghanistan out of a total 4,000 employees – US citizens and Afghans – waiting for evacuation in the country, a defense official told CNN. The official said the 4,000 total did not include family members of Afghan embassy employees. The US plan for those family members wasn't clear and the State Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

The rush to the exits marked an unsettling, tragic end to the US presence in Afghanistan as the Taliban retook control nearly 20 years after the US invaded to avenge the terror attacks of September 2001. After an investment of around $2 trillion, some 2,400 American lives lost and thousands more wounded, a nation-building project that spanned Republican and Democratic administrations devolved in just a few days into a complicated and nerve-wracking rescue mission.

In a Sunday phone briefing, Austin told House lawmakers Sunday that the evacuation was a "highly dynamic and very risky operation," even as he and other senior US officials worked to project a sense of control.

"This is not Saigon," Secretary of State Antony Blinken told CNN's Jake Tapper on "State of the Union," when asked about President Joe Biden's July assertion that under no circumstances would US personnel be airlifted out of Kabul in a replay of the US withdrawal from Vietnam in 1975.

'Deliberate, orderly'

Blinken said on ABC that instructions to diplomats to destroy documents, US flags or other items that could be used in Taliban propaganda are "standard operating procedure." Echoing Austin's talking points, Blinken added that the evacuation "is being done in a very deliberate way, orderly way. It's being done with American forces there to do it in a safe way."

At the same time, the US military is considering the possibility of sending additional US forces to Afghanistan, according to a defense official and US official familiar with the ongoing discussions. Both officials caution no decision has been made.

The defense official said the "current plan" is that as long as any US diplomats maintain a presence at the airport, there will be a contingent of US forces there to protect them. But the official acknowledged that if the Taliban are essentially in charge, the "reality" of keeping diplomats and troops at the airport may not hold.

Gen. Frank McKenzie, head of US Central Command, arrived in the Persian Gulf region Sunday to directly oversee the situation in Afghanistan, according to the defense official. The official declined to publicly name McKenzie's location, but said the general is not in Afghanistan.

A military team was expected to arrive and set up its own air traffic control system at the airport in Kabul in order to increase the number of evacuation flights out of the airfield. This type of capability is routinely maintained by the Air Force so it can operate at airfields in remote or war zone environments.

"We are going to ramp up flights," the defense official said.