Scores of Afghan dual nationals, including Americans, leave from newly reopened Kabul airport

The Taliban was pressed to allow the departures by U.S. Special Representative Zalmay Khalilzad, said an official, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to brief reporters. The dual nationals on the manifest also included passport holders from Britain, Italy, the Netherlands, Ukraine, Canada and Germany.

National Security Council spokesperson Emily Horne released a statement Thursday saying the United States "facilitated the departure of U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents" on the flight.

"The Taliban have been cooperative in facilitating the departure of American citizens and lawful permanent residents on charter flights" from Kabul airport, the statement read. "They have shown flexibility, and they have been businesslike and professional in our dealings with them in this effort. This is a positive first step."

Qatari and Taliban officials gathered on the tarmac in Kabul on Thursday to announce that the airport was nearly fully operational after significant repairs were made after the Taliban came to power. They also confirmed that Americans and other Western passport holders were on the flight.

The Post's White House team discusses what was really going on inside the White House as President Biden attempted to end America's 20-year war in Afghanistan. (Video: Zach Purser Brown/The Washington Post)

Mutlaq al-Qahtani, a Qatari special envoy, told reporters that it should no longer be seen as an "evacuation" but rather free passage for those with valid travel documents. "We want people to feel that this is normal."

"I can say this is a historic day in the history of Afghanistan, as the Kabul airport is now operational," he said. "We want to have a gradual reopening of the airport." He said he expected another flight Friday.

The Taliban pledged that once the airlift was complete, Afghans with travel documents would be free to leave the country.

"Anyone who carries valid travel documents, passports, visa will be allowed to travel," Taliban spokesman Qari Yousef Ahmadi said Thursday. "They will be allowed to proceed after going through the legal process."

In the northern city of Mazar-e Sharif, a number of planes chartered to evacuate at-risk Afghans have been stuck on the tarmac for days. Organizers of that evacuation effort say the Taliban has not granted the planes permission to take off. The Taliban said technical issues and the lack of fully functioning Interior and Foreign ministries have held up the effort.

This week, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Washington was working with the Taliban to move U.S. citizens and other allies out of the country safely but that complications had arisen over some passengers' travel documents.

"It's my understanding that the Taliban has not denied exit to anyone holding a valid document, but they have said those without valid documents, at this point, can't leave," Blinken said in a news conference in Doha.

The situation in Afghanistan remains unstable, with protests having broken out across the country in recent days as the Taliban announced a caretaker government in the capital composed largely of hard-line Taliban members. Several members of the new interim government were previously detained at Guantánamo Bay and were released in exchange for U.S. soldier Bowe Bergdahl in 2014.

On Wednesday, Taliban forces cracked down on a protest in Kabul, detaining several Afghan journalists and severely beating two who work for Etilaatroz, an Afghan newspaper, the outlet said on Twitter. Photos shared on social media showed their backs covered with lash marks.

The Interior Ministry later announced a ban on protests, saying participants have been "harassing people and disrupting normal life."

"All citizens are informed that for the time being, they should not try to hold demonstrations under any name or title," the statement said.

"For the past few days, a number of people in Kabul and other provinces have taken to the streets in the name of demonstrations, disrupting security, harassing people and disrupting normal life," it added.

The international community is still grappling with how to manage the Taliban takeover.

U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin told reporters Thursday that Washington is closely monitoring whether al-Qaeda militants will once again attempt to use Afghanistan as a staging ground to launch attacks against the United States.