The flights to a new life were in sight: Portraits of Afghans lost in the airport bombing

DOHA, Qatar — The bombing at Kabul's airport on Thursday was a grisly coda to America's longest war. Thirteen U.S. service members were killed. The vast majority of the casualties were Afghans — 170 killed and at least 200 wounded, with the figures poised to rise in the coming days. Are you on Telegram? Subscribe to our channel for the latest updates on Russia's war in Ukraine. ArrowRight They were young and old, women and men. They were working class as well as highly educated professionals and included doctors, journalists, athletes and tailors.

But the victims shared something in common: a desire to leave their country and the brutality and uncertainty of life under their new Taliban rulers. Such was their desperation to board a flight out of Kabul that they arrived despite public warnings that the airport was a possible target of the Islamic State.

Here are portraits of a few of them:

ALI REZA AHMADI

Ali Reza Ahmadi, 36, had fled the Taliban before. When the group first seized Kabul in 1996, he escaped as a child to Iran, where he grew up as a refugee and graduated from high school. He returned to Kabul after the Taliban was toppled from power in 2001. He enrolled at Kabul University, graduating with a degree in journalism in 2013.

"When we were studying and discussing under trees on Kabul University's campus, we never thought we would be here today," said Basir Ebadi, a classmate and friend of Ahmadi. "Ali Reza was the hopeful one. He imagined an Afghanistan free of violence."

As the Taliban gradually expanded its control over the country, Ahmadi co-founded a news agency, Raha News Agency, and worked as a freelance reporter for local media outlets.

When the Taliban entered Kabul on Aug. 15, Ahmadi lost hope. In the first week of the group's rule, Ahmadi wrote in a Facebook post that he had sold off 60 of his books for 50 Afghani (less than $1). He wanted to flee the country.

"He wanted to save his life," said Ebadi, who spoke with Ahmadi a few days ago. "He encouraged me to pack my bags and flee the country. He said that the Taliban would censor us if they do not kill us now. He said this place is no longer a place for living."

Ahmadi had no documents for boarding an evacuation flight. Still, he decided on Thursday to try his luck, along with his 33-year-old brother, Mujtaba. They carried their passports and national ID — and the hope that they could somehow enter the airport's gate and hop on to a flight to freedom.

Ali's body was unrecognizable after the blast. Mujtaba is still missing.

"We never thought we would lose [Ali] in this brutal way," said Ebadi. "He had dreams and hopes."