Photos and videos reveal crowded checkpoints, chaos at Kabul airport on day of the attack

Jon arrived on Thursday to Kabul's airport hoping to secure permission to leave Afghanistan with his wife and four young children. It was the fourth time he had made that trip. The 46-year-old former translator for coalition forces had already paid a high price for his service. He shared his story on the condition that The Washington Post use the name given to him by foreign contractors for security reasons, Jon. He was shot eight times during a targeted attack that ultimately left a metal rod in his leg.

He made his way through a canal near Abbey Gate, on the southeast side of Kabul's airport. His leg with the metal rod ached as he waded through the putrid water. No matter the difficulty or danger in attempting to leave Afghanistan, he worried the consequences of staying would be much worse. At around 5 p.m., he was at the Abbey Gate in the canal, where U.S. troops were operating a checkpoint.

As he reached to hand them his documents, a suicide bomber detonated explosives. "There was people's flesh all over my face, all over my body," Jon told The Post.

Multiple gunmen then opened fire on the civilians and military forces. A local affiliate of the Islamic State claimed responsibility for the attack.

The bombing killed more than 170 people and injured more than 150. That number is expected to rise. Thirteen U.S. service members were also killed in the deadliest attack on American forces in a decade.

The Post reviewed dozens of photos and videos, analyzed satellite imagery and spoke to witnesses to understand the events before and after the devastating blast. Taken together, they reveal a complex web of checkpoints and visualize a chaotic scene in the wake of the bombing.

An analysis of photos and videos from Wednesday, the previous day, found multiple routes to the blast site. A path leading to the Abbey Gate had at least two Taliban checkpoints and a coalition checkpoint. The security perimeter near the Abbey Gate was guarded by coalition forces. It's unclear how the bomber gained access to the area.

Satellite image ©2021 Maxar Technologies Satellite image ©2021 Maxar Technologies Source: Satellite image via Planet

The U.S. Defense Department did not immediately respond for comment, but American security officials have said the investigation into how the suicide bomber ultimately reached American forces is ongoing. Taliban leaders have said the attack was the result of poor American security.

Before the attack

Mohammad Paimani, a 27-year-old journalist, was one of hundreds of Afghans near Abbey Gate on Thursday morning who had ignored days of warnings by the United States to avoid the airport. Hours before the attack, he shot a video showing large crowds in the area.

A few feet away, Jon watched those trying to reach the other side of the canal to present their documents to American soldiers. Shortly before the blast, he took a photo showing throngs of people tightly packed into the small space and a child on the ledge next to military personnel.

The blast

In a brief moment of opportunity, Jon thought he could get the soldier's attention. He reached out with his documents. Then the bomb detonated.

"It was chaos and soon as I was going to call one of them to get their attention, I just heard boom," Jon said. Dazed by the blast, a loud tone rang in his ear as he tried to escape.

Paimani also saw, then felt, an explosion.

"It was like doomsday ... no one was helping injured or dead people," Paimani wrote in a text message.

Fearing a second suicide bomber or the possibility of being trapped, he fled with the panicked crowd. He witnessed women and children trampled in the chaos.