Facebook suspends Donald Trump for two years, citing 'severe violation' after Capitol riots

Trump's suspension would end in time for the 2024 election cycle.

Trump condemned the decision, adding 'no more dinners' with the Zuckerbergs if he is re-elected.

The Biden White House said it's 'pretty unlikely that the zebra is going to change his stripes.'

Facebook suspended former President Donald Trump for two years but ending just in time for him to possibly regain his powerful social media megaphone in the 2024 election cycle.

After that period, Facebook said it would consult experts to determine whether "the risk to public safety has receded," and make a call on Trump's return.

But Facebook warned that Trump's Facebook and Instagram, if reinstated, would face a "strict set of rapidly escalating sanctions" if he violates the company's rules again after being reinstated on Jan. 7, 2023.

Trump's accounts on Facebook and Instagram were frozen the day after the attack on the U.S. Capitol for his praise of supporters who stormed it, Facebook said.

"When the suspension is eventually lifted, there will be a strict set of rapidly escalating sanctions that will be triggered if Mr. Trump commits further violations in future, up to and including permanent removal of his pages and accounts," Facebook's vice president of global affairs and communications Nick Clegg said Friday.

Trump ban hurts fundraising: Trump's two-year Facebook ban to limit his fundraising ability for 2022 Republican candidates

Facebook after Trump suspension: Political speech of world leaders will get less preferential treatment

As part of Friday's announcement, Facebook said it would no longer grant politicians and other public figures special exemptions from its content policies after the social media giant faced a firestorm of criticism for being unclear on how and why it treats the speech of world leaders differently from any other user.

Public figures who foment violence during periods of civil unrest could face penalties ranging from one-month to two-year suspensions, the company said.

"Given the gravity of the circumstances that led to Mr. Trump's suspension, we believe his actions constituted a severe violation of our rules which merit the highest penalty available under the new enforcement protocols," Clegg said.

Trump vents at Facebook, calls decision 'an insult'

The former president condemned Facebook's decision.

"Facebook's ruling is an insult to the record-setting 75 (million) people, plus many others, who voted for us in the 2020 Rigged Presidential Election," he said in a statement. "They shouldn't be allowed to get away with this censoring and silencing, and ultimately, we will win. Our Country can't take this abuse anymore!"

He later added: "Next time I'm in the White House there will be no more dinners, at his request, with Mark Zuckerberg and his wife. It will be all business."

Facebook's decision dealt a significant blow to Trump, who relied on Facebook to rake in campaign cash for himself and for Republicans he backs.

"Donald Trump essentially became the big, red 'easy' button for a lot of donations," Bret Jacobson, president of digital advocacy agency for conservatives Red Edge, told USA TODAY.

Trump's possible reinstatement on Facebook will not come in time for the 2020 midterm elections, preventing him from spreading his message and hauling in campaign donations the way he did in 2016 and 2020.

"I think it's hard to think of any individual candidate who more successfully used Facebook to advance their political career than Donald Trump and my guess is his team is very aware of the crunch his temporary banishment is causing him," Jacobson said.

Biden White House weighs in on Trump two-year ban

The Biden White House addressed the Trump suspension during Friday's press briefing.