Key dates in U.S. involvement in Afghanistan since Sept. 11, 2001

Aug 30 (Reuters) - The last U.S. troops flew out of Afghanistan, fulfilling President Joe Biden's pledge to bring an end to America's longest war after a chaotic and violent evacuation from Kabul, the U.S. military said on Monday.

The following is a chronology of U.S. involvement and major developments in Afghanistan over the past two decades:

Sept. 11, 2001 - U.S. involvement in Afghanistan is triggered by attacks on the United States plotted in Afghanistan by the al Qaeda militant group, led by Osama bin Laden, who was in Afghanistan under Taliban protection.

Oct. 7, 2001 - U.S. forces begin air campaign with strikes on Taliban and al Qaeda forces. Small numbers of U.S. special forces and CIA agents soon slip into Afghanistan to help direct the bombing campaign and organise Afghan opposition forces. the Taliban would swiftly be toppled, however, with no major U.S. combat deployment on the ground.

Nov. 13, 2001 - U.S.-backed Northern Alliance forces enter Kabul as the Taliban withdraw south. Within a month, Taliban leaders have fled from southern Afghanistan into Pakistan.

December 2001 - U.S. forces bomb the Tora Bora cave complex in eastern Afghanistan where bin Laden is reported to be hiding, but he slips over the border into Pakistan, where he disappears.

May 2, 2003 - U.S. officials declare an end to major combat operations in Afghanistan. Under President George W. Bush, the U.S. focus turns to preparing for the invasion of Iraq, which required a diversion of U.S. troops, equipment, and intelligence collection from Afghanistan. That allows the Taliban to slowly regroup, at first in the south and east.

2006-2008 - With U.S. forces mainly fighting a surge campaign in Iraq, only a much smaller contingent is deployed in Afghanistan. The Taliban launch major advances threatening to recapture swaths of territory, especially in the south. In response, an enlarged NATO mission brings thousands more troops, notably British forces, hundreds of whom are killed in intense battles against the Taliban in Helmand province.