Trump to skip Biden swearing-in — Biden's fine with that

WASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump said Friday he will skip President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration, refusing to fulfill the outgoing president's traditional role in the peaceful transition of power and undercutting his own message just one day earlier on the need for "national healing and unity."

Trump, who has not appeared in public since a violent mob of his supporters besieged the Capitol on Wednesday and tried to halt the transfer of power, will be the first incumbent president since Andrew Johnson not to attend his successor's inauguration.

Biden said he was just fine with that, calling it "one of the few things we have ever agreed on."

"It's a good thing him not showing up," he added, calling the president an "embarrassment" to the nation and unworthy of the office.

Traditionally, the incoming and outgoing presidents ride to the U.S. Capitol together on Inauguration Day for the ceremony, a visible manifestation of the smooth change of leadership.

Biden will become president at noon on Jan. 20 regardless of Trump's plans. But Trump's absence represents one final act of defiance of the norms and traditions of Washington that he has flouted for four years.

Historian Douglas Brinkley said that while attending the inauguration "would be a wonderful olive branch to the country," he wasn't surprised by the decision.

"Donald Trump doesn't want to be in Washington as the second-fiddle loser standing on stage with Joe Biden," he said.

While Trump stays away, former Presidents Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton will be there to stand witness to the rite of democracy. The only other living president, 96-year-old Jimmy Carter, who has spent the pandemic largely at home in Georgia, will not attend but has extended "best wishes" to Biden.

Trump's tweet that he would boycott the inauguration came as he holed up in the White House with a dwindling coterie of aides and as momentum grew on Capitol Hill to subject him to impeachment for a second time.

"To all of those who have asked, I will not be going to the Inauguration on January 20th," Trump said in a tweet.

It may have been his last. The company announced Friday evening that it had permanently suspended Trump from its platform, citing the "risk of further incitement of violence." The sitting president said the company was trying to "silence" him and replied in an official statement that he was "negotiating" with other social media platforms while looking at "the possibilities of building out our own platform."

Trump's decision not to attend the inauguration was not a surprise: For more than two months, he has falsely claimed he won reelection and advanced baseless claims of widespread voter fraud, even though his own administration has said the election was fairly run.

Sen. Rick Scott, a Florida Republican, urged Trump to reconsider.

"He is, of course, not constitutionally required to attend and I can imagine losing an election is very hard, but I believe he should attend," Scott said in a statement. The senator called the rite "an important tradition that demonstrates the peaceful transfer of power to our people and to the world."