Remarks by Vice President Harris on the Biden-Harris Lead Pipe and Paint Action Plan

Good morning. Good morning. Have a seat. Have a seat. Good morning.

Ms. Jackson, I want to thank you. Your leadership is so inspiring, and the whole group of women and men and the community leaders that — that really have been a voice on these issues for so long. For so long. And you hold us to be accountable. And I'm glad to say today we're about to announce that we are taking that charge seriously and have heard you. But please continue with your leadership because it's so important. So, thank you.

And good morning, everyone. It is great to be in the house of labor. (Applause.) Good morning. (Laughs.) Good morning. And it's so good to be here at the AFL-CIO.

You know, the last time I was in this building was in August, and it was early in the morning. My husband, Doug, and I came here to pay our respects and say goodbye to the late, great Rich Trumka. And as we all know, he was a man who lived and breathed solidarity.

And I remember that morning because we wanted to just come in and be lowkey. And — and so we walked in the door and there was Liz Shuler. And she greeted me with a big ole warm hug, and we talked that day about Rich's legacy, about the tremendous mark he made and left on our nation.

And, Liz, we also talked about the future because that's what I believe Rich would have wanted. And we talked in a way that was not only the focus on what we have achieved, but we talked about what we still have yet to do. And Liz knows what we must do.

We have worked together for some time now, and I will tell you Liz knows we must protect the rights of workers to organize and collectively bargain. She knows we must strengthen those rights. She knows we cannot let up or ever accommodate any amount of progress. We must stay vigilant. And she knows that the Biden-Harris administration will always stand in solidarity with the American labor movement. (Applause.)

So you all know, and the President and I have been clear: We are determined and we are proud say, perhaps sometimes with a bit of bravado, that we will be the most pro-labor union administration in America's history — (applause) — and we are proud of that. And we are proud of that.

And it's for good reason. Because we're clear: When union wages go up, everybody's wages go up. When union jobs are safer, our communities are safer. And when union members go to work, they go to work for all of us. They teach our students and care for our patients. They lay broadband lines and manufacture electric vehicles. And union members replace lead pipes –- (applause) — which is what brings me here today.

Over the years, I have traveled around the country and I have met many parents to talk about this very issue –- so many parents –- parents who are worried that every time they turned on the faucet to get their child a glass of water, that they may be filling that glass with poison; parents who worry, as they make breakfast in the morning or in the evening help their children to brush their teeth, that they are exposing their children to something that could harm them.

And the science is clear about what drinking water from a lead pipe can do to the human body. For adults, it can cause an increase in blood pressure and decrease kidney function. For children, it can severely harm mental and physical development. It can stunt growth, slow down learning, and cause irreparable damage to the brain.

So, the bottom line is that there is no reason in the 21st century for why people are still exposed to this substance that was poisoning people back in the 18th century. There is no good reason.