What the heck is going on with Kamala Harris?

CNN — In the space of the last two weeks, Vice President Kamala Harris has lost two of her senior aides.

First, just before Thanksgiving, news broke that Ashley Etienne, Harris' communications director, would be leaving the vice president's office. Then, on Wednesday night, CNN reported that Symone Sanders, Harris' chief spokesperson and a senior adviser, is also headed out the door.

Harris allies quickly moved to explain both of these departures away as long-planned and not part of any sort of problem within the Veep's office.

"It's natural for staffers who've thrown their heart and soul into a job to be ready to move on after a few years," said White House press secretary Jen Psaki of Sanders' departure on Thursday.

If you believe that, well, you haven't been paying attention. Top advisers to a vice president don't just randomly leave less than a year into a term. One departure might be explained away by extenuating circumstances. Two? No way.

The decisions by Etienne and Sanders to head for the exits then raises a simple question: What is happening in Harris world?

While the question is simple, the answer – or answers – are not.

There are those who dispute even the premise of the question, insisting that Harris is being judged by an unfair standard because of her history-making status as the first woman, first African American and first Asian American to hold the vice presidency.

But, staff departures at such a senior level this soon into a term would provoke questions no matter who was in the vice president's office because, well, they are odd and not typical.

So, again, what is going on?

We have some window into that via reporting by my CNN colleagues Edward Isaac Dovere and Jasmine Wright last month. Wrote the duo:

"Worn out by what they see as entrenched dysfunction and lack of focus, key West Wing aides have largely thrown up their hands at Vice President Kamala Harris and her staff – deciding there simply isn't time to deal with them right now, especially at a moment when President Joe Biden faces quickly multiplying legislative and political concerns.