Vice President Harris new to wielding Senate gavel in challenging time

When Vice President Kamala Harris swore in three new Democratic senators Wednesday afternoon, it was the first time she had presided over the chamber. And it came at a time when she will provide Democrats the edge with her tiebreaking vote.

Harris' ascent to the vice presidency, combined with the swearing-in of her appointed Senate replacement, Alex Padilla of California, and newly elected Georgia Democrats Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock, made New York's Charles E. Schumer the Senate majority leader.

Like President Joe Biden when he was vice president, Harris will have a variety of largely ceremonial functions as president of the Senate, but she may also find herself doing something Biden never did.

The 50-50 party split in the Senate puts her in a somewhat similar position to her most recent predecessor, Mike Pence, who was on the West Front of the Capitol for Wednesday's inaugural ceremony. He cast 13 tiebreaking votes over his four-year term, in part because of recent changes in Senate rules on nominations.

Harris' new tiebreaking power also led to Vermont Democrat Patrick J. Leahy resuming the position of Senate president pro tempore, with the constitutional role to fulfill the Senate duties of the vice president when she is not in the Capitol.

In their opening floor statements following Leahy's election, which came by unanimous consent, both Schumer and Republican leader Mitch McConnell congratulated Biden and Harris and praised the celebration of democracy that took place Wednesday. But neither spoke to the details of the effort to formally organize the Senate, which is the most pressing piece of business.

Schumer and McConnell continue to iron out the terms of the amount of power to be provided the minority party. Any agreement will likely echo the 2001 deal that resulted from the last time the Senate was tied: Democrats will chair committees and Schumer will have control of the floor, but there will be equal membership on committees.

"This Senate will legislate. It will be active, responsive, energetic and bold. And to my Republican colleagues, when and where we can, the Democratic majority will strive to make this important work bipartisan," Schumer said on the floor.

"Our country deserves for both sides, both parties, to find common ground for the common good everywhere that we can and disagree respectfully where we must," McConnell said in his first speech since returning to minority leader status. "Last fall, the American people chose to elect a narrowly divided House of Representatives, a 50-50 Senate and a president who promised unity."

For those looking for signs of such bipartisanship, there was one Wednesday. The chamber, even without a formal organizing resolution, confirmed Biden's nominee to be director of national intelligence, Avril Haines.

The 84-10 vote came after a brief hiccup when Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., placed a hold on the nomination until he received a response regarding comments Haines made during her confirmation hearing Tuesday.