More than a Vogue cover: Madam Vice President Kamala Harris

Vice President Kamala Harris graced the February cover of Vogue magazine wearing her signature Converse sneakers, a dark jacket, and skinny pants, paired with a white top. This casual image of the first female vice president drew considerable criticism for failing to capture Harris in a pose and outfit more appropriate for her historic position in American government. Anna Wintour, Vogue editor-in-chef, and others defended the cover picture by noting that this image best reflects the events of the moment—but has now announced a re-do, with a new limited edition cover for Kamala Harris as a result of the widespread backlash. The cover photo controversy is much more than a disagreement over a styling choice. Madam Vice-President's racial identity is central to understanding why some take exception to this cover. Black women's bodies are political. Their styling choices have cultural meanings that are deeply rooted in cultural norms that carry the legacies of racism, sexism, and respectability politics. Thus, the uproar over Kamala Harris's Vogue cover must be read through a socio-cultural lens that acknowledges the intersectional salience of her racialized and gendered body.

Outside of her historic victory, Kamala Harris's appearance also affords her some possibilities, such as this Vogue cover, not open to other Black women candidates. This multi-ethnic Black woman was once called the "best-looking attorney general in the country" by President Barack Obama. She's also appeared on the Hill's 50 Most Beautiful list. Contrast the recognition of Kamala Harris' beauty to the experiences of Stacey Abrams. The former Georgia gubernatorial candidate and founder of Fair Fight plainly stated to the co-hosts of The Breakfast Club, a syndicated hip-hop/urban radio show based in New York City, that "They [doubters] don't think I'm viable, because I'm a Black woman with natural hair." Harris and Abrams have received differential treatment that is not shaped by their political ideologies, fitness for an elected position, nor their ability to represent constituents.