Kamala Harris Is Right: Bluetooth Is a Security Risk

US Vice President Kamala Harris does not like to use wireless headphones or email because she considers them too much of a security risk, US Vice President Kamala Harris does not like to use wireless headphones or email because she considers them too much of a security risk, according to a Politico story that calls her "Bluetooth-phobic."

The tone of the article is clearly one of skepticism that borders on mockery. The tone of the article is clearly one of skepticism that borders on mockery.

"Should someone who travels with the nuclear football be spending time untangling her headphone wires? The American people deserve answers!," Politico writes. "The vice president's office did not respond when asked if there was a 'fun origin story' to Harris' Bluetooth wariness, or for any background on the particular security risks Harris believes Bluetooth technology represents. Afterall, you never know who is listening ..." "Should someone who travels with the nuclear football be spending time untangling her headphone wires? The American people deserve answers!," Politico writes. "The vice president's office did not respond when asked if there was a 'fun origin story' to Harris' Bluetooth wariness, or for any background on the particular security risks Harris believes Bluetooth technology represents. Afterall, you never know who is listening ..."

The article also states that some of her aides believe she is "paranoid." The article also states that some of her aides believe she is "paranoid."

The truth is, Harris should be wary of using Bluetooth, and she's absolutely right it's not a risk worth taking given that she is quite literally one of the most important politicians on Earth. The truth is, Harris should be wary of using Bluetooth, and she's absolutely right it's not a risk worth taking given that she is quite literally one of the most important politicians on Earth.

"Kamala is smart. And she's right about the risks," John Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at Citizen Lab, a digital rights and cybersecurity organization, "Kamala is smart. And she's right about the risks," John Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at Citizen Lab, a digital rights and cybersecurity organization, wrote on Twitter

Wendy Nather, a veteran of the cybersecurity industry, agreed, Wendy Nather, a veteran of the cybersecurity industry, agreed, also calling Harris "smart."

"Kamala Harris is absolutely right about the security risk, and the word "phobia" has no place in the discourse," Chad Loder, a cybersecurity researcher, "Kamala Harris is absolutely right about the security risk, and the word "phobia" has no place in the discourse," Chad Loder, a cybersecurity researcher, wrote on Twitter

Sergio Caltagirone, a former NSA employee and vice president of threat intelligence at cybersecurity firm Dragos, said that Harris' approach is "perfectly reasonable." Sergio Caltagirone, a former NSA employee and vice president of threat intelligence at cybersecurity firm Dragos, said that Harris' approach is "perfectly reasonable."

If you are not the Vice President of the United States, it's absolutely OK to use Bluetooth headphones. If you are not the Vice President of the United States, it's absolutely OK to use Bluetooth headphones. It all depends on your threat model , which is cybersecurity speak for assessing your personal risks and how likely you are to get hacked or surveilled.