Remarks by Vice President Harris and President Akufo-Addo of the Republic of Ghana Before Bilateral Meeting

Well, it is my honor to welcome you, Mr. President, to the White House. And I'm very much looking forward to our conversation today, which is a reaffirmation of the strength of the relationship between the United States and Ghana.

And, of course, we have deep and historical ties. Our official bilateral relationship began in 1957, but of course, there are longer — and longer-standing ties that connect the people of our nations.

Over the years, many Americans have traveled to Ghana to remember the history of slavery and to honor their roots and understand their ancestry. And the African diaspora in the United States, including my home state of California, is significant, and our nation is stronger for it.

We — these two nations — share a commitment to democracy. Last December, the people of Ghana voted in a free and fair election that demonstrated your nation's commitment to democratic principles and institutions.

We share a view that all people must have a voice in their future, that our democracies are stronger when everyone participates and weaker when anyone is left out.

We also share a commitment to global health. None of us have been immune from the ravages of the pandemic. We recognize our shared responsibility to collaborate, to share resources to not only continue to address the effects of COVID-19, but to prepare for the next pandemics.

And in that way, the United States is proud to be a member of COVAX and the African Union, and has donated more than 1.2 million doses of the Moderna vaccine to Ghana. And I'm proud to announce that we will, shortly, send more than 1.3 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine.

Finally, we are working together to expand our economic relationship. You and I have talked about that briefly before we came in. American companies continue to ramp up in Ghana, understanding the significance of the work that they do there to America's economy, much less to the partnership between Ghana and the United States.

And they do this also because they have confidence in the government of Ghana and the environment, Mr. President, that you have created, which allows for some confidence in the respect and upholding of the rule of law and human rights.

And so, with all of that, we look forward to continuing to work together on all of these issues, including in the context of the United Nations Security Council. And again, I am honored to formally welcome you to the White House.