White House goes into damage control mode after reports of dysfunction in Kamala Harris' office

CNN — Editor's Note: This piece originally published on July 2, 2021.

The White House dove into damage control this week after reports of dysfunction and infighting in Vice President Kamala Harris' office, with the administration trying to stop a drama-filled narrative from taking hold, according to five people who spoke to CNN about the dynamics within Harris' office.

Two people close to Harris' team said some individuals inside the vice president's office are frustrated with what they see as a dysfunctional operation that has been at times waylaid by internal conflict. Some of that ire is directed squarely at Harris' chief of staff, Tina Flournoy, those people said. Another source close to the staff said there were "challenges and struggles" and heard complaints about Flournoy from staff, but denied it amounted to dysfunction or that the tensions were directly Flournoy's fault.

Sabrina Singh, deputy press secretary to the vice president, told CNN in a statement that Harris' focus remains on her work.

"The Vice President and her office are focused on the Biden-Harris Administration's agenda to build an economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not the top down, to making sure racial equity is at the core of everything the Administration does, to combatting the existential threat of climate change, and to continue protecting the American people from the Covid-19 pandemic," Singh said.

And White House press secretary Jen Psaki on Friday said, "I will say that the vice president is an incredibly important partner to the President of the United States. She has a challenging job, a hard job, and she has a great supportive team of people around her. But other than that, I'm not going to have any more comments on those reports."

Still, conversations are now underway in the West Wing about how to better support Harris' team, one source close to the White House said.

That help from the West Wing is a sign that the spiraling narrative could start to affect Harris, who is considered the next in line to lead the Democratic Party – with a potential for a presidential run coming as soon as 2024 if President Joe Biden decides not to seek reelection. Biden has said he does intend to run.

Top White House officials and aides to the vice president went on the record to defend Harris and Flournoy, calling reports of infighting and dysfunction overblown or simply untrue. And Harris' outside allies and advisers – like influential adviser Minyon Moore and Democratic strategist Bakari Sellers – quickly took to Twitter, looking to drown out the criticism.

On Friday, Biden's chief of staff, Ron Klain, a longtime friend of Flournoy, said in a statement to CNN: "Vice President Harris and her team are off to the fastest and strongest start of any Vice President I have seen. She's Delivering for the American people on immigration, small business, voting rights, and economic growth. The President's trust and confidence in her is obvious when you see them in the Oval Office together."

"The results speak for themselves: a decline of border arrivals from the Northern Triangle, improved vaccine equity, and increased economic opportunities for women. Anyone who has the honor of working closely with the Vice President knows how her talents and determination have made a huge difference in this Administration already," Klain's statement added.