'The storm is here': Ashli Babbitt's journey from capital 'guardian' to invader

The politician she revered above all others had lost an election. She'd struggled with crippling amounts of debt. Her home state of California was locking down again because of a virus she believed was fiction. Fast, informative and written just for locals. ArrowRight As she walked east along the Mall on Wednesday, wearing a backpack emblazoned with the American flag, Ashli Babbitt was elated.

"It was amazing to get to see the president talk," Babbitt said, beaming in a video she streamed on Facebook early Wednesday afternoon that was later published by TMZ. "We are now walking down the inaugural path to the Capitol building. Three million-plus people."

There was no crowd of three million: just a mob, lawless and maskless, that numbered in the thousands. Babbitt's mission, which she had repeatedly avowed on social media, was to restore American democracy. But she was about to take part in a riot that would go down in history as one of that democracy's most grievous attacks.

After a long but undistinguished military career and years of personal travails, Babbitt — a 35-year-old Air Force veteran from Southern California who once supported Barack Obama — believed she had found a cause that gave her life purpose. Within hours, that cause would bring her life to a violent end.

Hers was the first death reported Jan. 6, when rioters incited by President Trump overran the seat of the U.S. government. In the coming days there would be others. Brian D. Sicknick, a 42-year-old Capitol police officer who died after being injured while trying to push back the mob. Rosanne Boyland, Kevin D. Greeson and Benjamin Phillips, who died of medical emergencies during the chaos.

But it was Babbitt, fatally shot by police as she attempted to leap through the broken window of a door inside the Capitol, whose name would almost instantly become synonymous with the feverish movement that had propelled thousands of Americans to desecrate a pillar of their government.

To her comrades in the movement, she was a martyr. Back in California, Babbitt's brother, Roger Witthoeft, didn't even know she had attended the protest before their dad, distraught, called him with news of the shooting. He found a video online.

"There was no doubt that it was my beautiful sister," Witthoeft recalled.

Babbitt's journey — illuminated through her extensive social media activity, court and military records, and interviews with some who knew her — was one of paranoid devotion and enthusiasm that only increased as Trump's fortunes waned.

She avidly followed the QAnon conspiracy theory, convinced that Trump was destined to vanquish a cabal of child abusers and Satan-worshiping Democrats. She believed Wednesday would be "the storm," when QAnon mythology holds that Trump would capture and execute his opponents.

Long before she embraced those ideas, Babbitt was on a rocky path. She was loyal but rebellious, devoted to her country but often unable to get along with those who shared it. A believer in American pluck and free enterprise, she struggled in her attempts to run a small pool-service company outside San Diego.

She served more than a decade in the armed forces but chafed under the military hierarchy. Six of those years were spent in an Air National Guard unit whose mandate is to defend the Washington region and respond to civil unrest. Its nickname: the Capital Guardians.

Like so many others, she believed Jan. 6 would be not a day of infamy, but an end to her troubles.

"Nothing will stop us," she tweeted Jan. 5. "They can try and try and try but the storm is here and it is descending upon DC in less than 24 hours....dark to light!"

It was the last thing she would write.

'Absolutely unafraid'

She was fed up with her executive officer. It was 2014, and Babbitt — along with much of her Air National Guard unit, then stationed at the Al Dhafra Air Base in the United Arab Emirates — detested him, according to a former staff sergeant in the unit who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he fears backlash online.

But despite her reputation for being outspoken, she kept herself in check. Then one day, the executive officer slipped new papers into a briefing binder shortly before quizzing service members on its contents.

Babbitt asked for permission to speak freely, the former staff sergeant said, and the executive officer granted it — "which was a huge mistake for that captain."