Kyle Rittenhouse found not guilty on all counts in Kenosha shootings case

KENOSHA - After nearly four full days of deliberation in a case that riveted the nation, a jury delivered its dramatic verdict Friday, acquitting Kyle Rittenhouse of killing two men, wounding another and endangering two more in a series of shootings during a night of protests in Kenosha last year.

In reaching not guilty verdicts, the jury agreed Rittenhouse, 18, acted in self-defense, a claim his supporters and lawyers made within a day of the events that made him a conservative cause célèbre.

The announcement came shortly after noon in a heavily guarded Kenosha County Courthouse.

Rittenhouse appeared to hold back sobs as the verdict was read. He dropped to his knees when the final "not guilty" was announced. He was helped back into his chair and hugged Corey Chirafisi, one of his attorneys.

Rittenhouse's mother and sisters cried on one side of the courtroom. On the other, three women who were engaged or related to the two people he killed also wept.

After the verdicts were read, lead prosecutor Thomas Binger told the judge, "The jury, which represented our community in this trial, has spoke."

Later, his boss, Kenosha County District Attorney Michael Graveley issued a statement that he also respected the verdict.

"Certainly, issues regarding the privilege of self-defense remain highly contentious in our current times," Graveley said. "We ask that all members of the public accept the verdicts peacefully and not resort to violence."

Mark Richards, a Rittenhouse defense attorney, spoke to a throng of reporters later outside his Racine office.

He said Rittenhouse was "on his way home."

"He wants to get on with his life. He has a huge sense of relief for what the jury did to him today. He wishes none of this would have ever happened. But as he said when he testified he did not start this. And we're thankful in more ways than one that the jury finally got to hear the true story."

A key moment in the case came when Rittenhouse took the stand in his defense.

"In Wisconsin, if you don't put a client on the stand, you're going to lose, period," Richards said during a news conference.

Rittenhouse, 18, faced five charges: first-degree reckless homicide for killing Joseph Rosenbaum, 36; first-degree intentional homicide for killing Anthony Huber, 26; and attempted first-degree intentional homicide in the shooting of Gaige Grosskreutz, 28.

He also faced two counts of first-degree reckless endangerment for shooting twice at an unidentified man, and in the direction of Richard McGinniss.

McGinniss, a videographer, was in the line of fire when Rittenhouse shot four rounds at Rosenbaum in less than a second.