Rittenhouse Verdict Kyle Rittenhouse Acquitted on All Counts

Kyle Rittenhouse, 18, sobbed and hugged his lawyers after being found not guilty for fatally shooting two men and wounding another during protests last year over police conduct in Kenosha, Wis.

"The defendant will rise to face the jury and hearken to its verdicts." "As to the first count of the information, Joseph Rosenbaum, we the jury, find the defendant, Kyle H. Rittenhouse, not guilty. As to the second count of the information, Richard McGinnis, we the jury find the defendant, Kyle H. Rittenhouse, not guilty. As to the third count of the information, unknown male, we, the jury, find the defendant, Kyle H. Rittenhouse, not guilty. As to the fourth count of the information, Anthony Huber, we, the jury, find the defendant, Kyle H. Rittenhouse, not guilty. As to the fifth count of the information, Gaige Grosskreutz, we, the jury, find the defendant, Kyle H. Rittenhouse, not guilty." "Members of the jury, these your unanimous verdicts?" "Yes." "Is there anyone who does not agree with the verdicts as read?" "No." "[Unclear] the jury pool. OK folks, your job is done, and we started just about three weeks ago."

KENOSHA, Wis. — Kyle Rittenhouse, who fatally shot two men and wounded another amid protests and rioting over police conduct in Kenosha, Wis., was found not guilty of homicide and other charges on Friday, in a deeply divisive case that ignited a national debate over vigilantism, gun rights and the definition of self-defense.

After about 26 hours of deliberation, a jury appeared to accept Mr. Rittenhouse's explanation that he had acted reasonably to defend himself in an unruly and turbulent scene in August 2020, days after a white police officer shot Jacob Blake, a Black resident, during a summer of unrest following the murder of George Floyd by a Minneapolis police officer.

Mr. Rittenhouse sobbed and was held by his lawyers after a clerk read the jury's verdict, acquitting him of all charges.

After the shootings, Mr. Rittenhouse was transformed from an unknown 17-year-old from rural Illinois into a national symbol. Some Americans were horrified by the images of a teenager toting a powerful semiautomatic rifle on a city street during racial justice demonstrations, a reminder of the extent of open carry laws in the United States. Others saw a well-meaning young man who had gone to keep the peace and provide medical aid, a response to the sometimes destructive protests that had roiled American cities in the summer of 2020.

Image Justin Blake, upper left, Jacob Blake's uncle, and others listen to the verdict while standing outside the Kenosha County Courthouse. Credit... Carlos Javier Ortiz for The New York Times

"So many people look at this case and they see what they want to see," Thomas Binger, the prosecutor in the trial, had cautioned jurors before they began deliberations.

The case reflected the sharp split in the country, and political leaders and others weighed in almost immediately, conservatives deeming it a win for the notion of self-defense and liberals labeling it a failure of the criminal justice system.

Gov. Gavin Newsom of California, said the verdict served as a message to "armed vigilantes" that "you can break the law, carry around weapons built for a military, shoot and kill people, and get away with it."

President Biden said the acquittal would "leave many Americans feeling angry and concerned, myself included," but he also urged demonstrators to remain peaceful. "I stand by what the jury has concluded," he told reporters earlier. "The jury system works, and we have to abide by it."

Republicans, like Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, said that "justice has been served." Rebecca Kleefisch, the leading Republican candidate for Wisconsin governor, said that "the justice system worked" and called the prosecution "a complete disgrace."

Shortly after noon on Friday, the jury forewoman, wearing a jean jacket and a face mask, handed the verdicts to a court official, who passed them to Judge Bruce Schroeder for review. As the verdict was read, Mr. Rittenhouse's mother and sisters cried, and friends and family of the men Mr. Rittenhouse fatally shot clutched each other's hands and wept. Several jurors, appearing fatigued, shifted uncomfortably in their seats or folded their arms across their chests.

Outside the courthouse, quiet gave way to shouts from supporters of Mr. Rittenhouse. Gov. Tony Evers had prepared for any unrest after the verdict by authorizing 500 Wisconsin Army National Guard troops. As evening fell, only a few demonstrators holding signs remained on the courthouse steps.