EXPLAINER: Why did judge drop Rittenhouse gun charge?

MADISON, Wis. (AP) — Prosecutors in Kyle Rittenhouse's murder trial may have lost their best chance at convicting the Illinois man of something when the judge threw out a charge that Rittenhouse was a minor in possession of a dangerous weapon.

Rittenhouse shot three men, killing two of them, with an AR-15-style rifle during a chaotic protest against police brutality in Kenosha last year. A jury deliberated about 3 1/2 days before finding Rittenhouse not guilty on Friday of five felony charges, including a murder charge that could have carried a life in prison sentence.

That jury never got to consider the gun possession charge — one that at one time had seemed a slam-dunk for the prosecution. Rittenhouse was 17 at the time, and there was no dispute that he was armed the night of the shootings with a Smith and Wesson AR-style semi-automatic rifle strapped to his chest.

Though the charge was only a misdemeanor — punishable by a maximum nine months in jail — it might have offered the jury a way to convict Rittenhouse of a lesser crime if they were persuaded by his self-defense claims but agreed with prosecutors that he made a poor decision to carry a rifle on the streets of Kenosha.

So what happened?

Hours before closing arguments began on Monday, Judge Bruce Schroeder granted a defense motion to toss out the weapons charge. Rittenhouse attorneys Mark Richards and Corey Chirafisi pointed to an exception in the law that they said allows minors to possess shotguns and rifles as long as they're not short-barreled.

Assistant District Attorney James Kraus argued that the exception renders the state's prohibition on minors possessing dangerous weapons meaningless. But when he acknowledged that Rittenhouse's rifle's barrel was longer than 16 inches, the minimum barrel length allowed under state law, Schroeder dismissed the charge.

To Kenosha-based defense attorney Michael Cicchini, the statute clearly requires a weapon to be short-barreled to apply, and the judge made the right call.

"There doesn't seem to be much ambiguity here," he said. "(The charge) should have been dismissed earlier."

The current wording of the overarching law seems clear: "Any person under 18 years of age who possesses or goes armed with a dangerous weapon is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor." A lead-in paragraph defines dangerous weapon as several things, including "any firearm, loaded or unloaded."

The subsection that defense attorneys relied upon to seek dismissal reads: "This section applies only to a person under 18 years of age who possesses or is armed with a rifle or a shotgun if the person is in violation of s. 941.28 ..." That section of law isn't specific to minors, but rather forbids any person from having a short-barreled shotgun or rifle.

"We knew from the beginning, that if you read that statute correctly, he was legal in having that firearm," Richards said Friday after Rittenhouse was cleared of the remaining charges.