Kyle Rittenhouse Found Not Guilty

On Friday, a jury found Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty of charges he faced for killing two people and shooting another with an AR15 rifle at Black Lives Matter protests in Kenosha, Wisconsin, on August 25, 2020. After three and a half days of deliberation, a jury acquitted Rittenhouse of all felony counts, including first-degree intentional homicide, first-degree reckless homicide, attempted first-degree intentional homicide, and two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety.

Rittenhouse, who was 17 at the time of the shooting, lived in Antioch, Illinois; he crossed state lines, picked up an illegally obtained AR15 rifle from a friend's stepfather, and embedded with a self-described militia purportedly protecting a local business from demonstrators out after curfew. That week, Kenosha saw sustained protests after local police shot Jacob Blake, a Black man, in the back with his children watching. Rittenhouse — a former police cadet and a Trump supporter with a strong "Blues Lives Matter" social-media presence — told a right-wing media outlet that he was there doing his "job," though he had taken it upon himself to help guard the car dealership. And when a confrontation broke out, Rittenhouse fired at a group of people appearing to chase him, killing 36-year-old Joseph Rosenbaum. Shortly after that, he shot and killed 26-year-old Anthony Huber, also injuring 26-year-old Gaige Grosskreutz.

With Fox News personalities hailing him as a hero, and even the then-president defending him, Rittenhouse was charged with first-degree intentional homicide days later. Kenosha prosecutors also charged him with two counts of first-degree recklessly endangering safety, one count of first-degree reckless homicide, one count of attempted first-degree intentional homicide, one count of possession of a dangerous weapon by a person under 18, and also for violating curfew. He pleaded not guilty to all, claiming he shot his victims in self-defense. His trial began on November 2.

What did the prosecution argue?

In his opening statements, prosecutor Thomas Binger emphasized that although hundreds of people "experienced the night of August 25, experienced the chaos — the only one who killed anyone was the defendant, Kyle Rittenhouse." Binger positioned Rittenhouse as the instigator of deadly conflict, one of the outsiders drawn to unrest in Kenosha "like moths to a flame."