Lone survivor in Kyle Rittenhouse shooting acknowledges unholstering his own gun, worrying about teen's safety

KENOSHA — The only man to survive being shot by Kyle Rittenhouse acknowledged Monday he had unholstered his gun and pointed it in the teen's direction when Rittenhouse fired a single bullet into the man's bicep.

Gaige Grosskreutz, a trained paramedic, told jurors he hadn't planned to shoot Rittenhouse even though he believed the teen to be an active shooter. Having seen Rittenhouse already kill one man, he assumed he would be next.

"I was never trying to kill the defendant," Grosskreutz said. "That was never something I was trying to do. In that moment, I was trying to preserve my own life. But doing so, also, taking the life of another is not something I am capable or comfortable of doing. It goes against almost a lifelong ethical code in regards to medicine."

In putting a human face on what had so far been a video-heavy case that centered around very technical legal questions, Grosskreutz seemed to bolster Rittenhouse's self-defense claim as he testified that he believed some people chasing Rittenhouse down the street intended to hurt the teen. He also confirmed he had a gun in his right hand as he took a step toward Rittenhouse.

Grosskreutz, 28, told the jury he did not chase Rittenhouse that night as the defense argues. He acknowledged, however, that he reached for the teen's AR-15-style semi-automatic rifle just before Rittenhouse shot him in the arm.

Wearing a hat with "paramedic" printed on it during protests, Grosskreutz testified, he and a friend had organized a medical corps to help people needing assistance at demonstrations in Milwaukee during the summer of 2020 after George Floyd's death. He also traveled to Kenosha on Aug. 25 to provide medic services to people protesting the shooting days earlier of Jacob Blake, a Black man, by a white police officer.

Like Rittenhouse, Grosskreutz carried a gun and provided first aid to people injured during the demonstrations. But unlike Rittenhouse — a 17-year-old lifeguard who misled people about his age and emergency medical technician certification — Grosskreutz obtained his firearm through proper channels and was certified as an EMT.

Rittenhouse volunteered as an armed security guard for a Kenosha used car lot after businesses had been burned and vandalized during demonstrations the previous day. He left his post and his partner shortly before midnight and encountered Joseph Rosenbaum, who one witness described as a "babbling idiot" saying provocative things and shouting racial slurs at various times throughout the evening.