The Bright Future of "Kryin'" Kyle Rittenhouse

I hope everyone had a wonderful Thanksgiving. This year marks the 400th anniversary of the Pilgrims' first Thanksgiving with the indigenous population. (It's likely, however, if the Indians had known where this was going they might have suggested the Pilgrims order out.)

A little more than a week ago, on November 19th, 18-year-old Kyle Rittenhouse was found not guilty by a jury of eleven white people and one person of color, of all five charges including murder, stemming from a deadly street protest in Kenosha, Wisconsin, on August 25, 2020. The day before Jacob Blake, a black man, was shot four times in the back and three times on the side as he opened the driver's door to his girlfriend's SUV.

Amazingly, Blake survived though he required numerous surgeries. But the white cop who fired the shots faced no charges. This led to angry protests in the streets that included considerable looting. TV coverage and social media apparently inspired Rittenhouse, then 17, to drive from Antioch, Illinois to Kenosha. Unfortunately, he was carrying his trusty assault rifle. (Despite being under age to have any gun, much less such the deadly the AR-15.)

So it was Rittenhouse killed two men and permanently paralyzed a third but claimed self defense. In what some labeled an Oscar worthy performance, in his trial testimony Rittenhouse broke down crying. It was rather odd, however, because there were no tears. (To be fair, he didn't have the benefit of tear-inducing glycerin that actors and actresses use.)

Kyle got an "A" for effort as he squeezed his face and squinted his eyes over and over hoping to open the flood gates but it only released a tiny drop. At one point he sneaked a peek at the jury to see if they were buying it.

(Spoiler alert: They were!)

Yes, "Kryin' Kyle" got off scot free and is the darling of the right wing gun rights activists. Ted Nugent, the over the hill rocker, reportedly has offered to provide Rittenhouse a lifetime's worth of ammunition. (What could go wrong there?)

The history of unarmed black men being killed by white men goes back to slavery that began in this country in 1619 when 20 enslaved Africans arrived in Jamestown. But in the public eye where an unarmed black man is killed by someone who claims self defense, that may have started with George Zimmerman.

On February 26, 2012, in Sanford, Florida, George Zimmerman fatally shot Travon Martin and was also found not guilty. I could list dozens, maybe hundreds of similar cases but I'm only allowed 800 words.

Such is the current case in Georgia of Ahmaud Arbery, a 25-year old black man who went jogging and tragically he wound up dead. The three white men who were charged with his murder claimed self defense. Thankfully, they were all found guilty.