Kyle Rittenhouse's friend pleads not guilty to providing gun, seeks dismissal of charges

The friend who bought Kyle Rittenhouse an AR-15-style rifle last year — the gun used in August to kill two protesters and wound a third in Kenosha — asked a judge Tuesday to dismiss felony charges of providing the gun to a minor.

Dominick Black, 19, of Racine, appeared Tuesday at his arraignment on two counts of providing a dangerous weapon to someone under 18, resulting in death, filed back in early November. Conviction on each count can bring a sentence of three years in prison plus three years of supervision. Kenosha County Circuit Judge Bruce Schroeder entered a not guilty plea on Black's behalf.

The hearing had been delayed after Black switched lawyers and hired well-known Waukesha criminal defense attorney Anthony Cotton.

On Tuesday, Cotton filed a motion to dismiss the charges, which he says rely on "misreading of the plain language" of the law regarding minors with guns.

Black purchased the Smith & Wesson M&P 15 rifle for Rittenhouse — who was 17 at the time — last May at a hardware store near Black's family's property in Rusk County. Rittenhouse has said he used $1,200 in enhanced unemployment pay after his lifeguarding job was ended during the coronavirus pandemic.

They used the gun to shoot on private, rural land and it was being kept by Black's stepfather in Kenosha until the night of Aug. 25, when Black and Rittenhouse armed themselves before going downtown. They have said they were asked to protect a car business that had been vandalized and burned during the previous two nights of unrest in the wake of a police shooting of Jacob Blake.

That night, Rittenhouse fatally shot Joseph Rosenbaum, 36, and Anthony Huber, 26, and wounded Gaige Grosskreutz, 27. Rittenhouse was charged with homicides and other counts and has pleaded not guilty. His lawyers say the shootings were in self-defense. His trial is set for Nov. 1.

Wisconsin law makes it a felony for anyone who gives a firearm to someone under 18, and a more serious felony if the minor shoots and kills someone.

There are two exceptions to the first transfer prohibition — it's legal to give a minor a gun if it's used for supervised training in gun safety or supervised target practice, and it's legal if a member of the military or National Guard gives a minor a gun in the line of duty.

Cotton argues that there's also a requirement to trigger the general ban on minors with guns — that they must be in violation of rules for young hunters. One law applies to how and when children under 16 may possess firearms while hunting. Another requires young hunters to obtain a hunter safety education certificate.

The first could not apply because Rittenhouse was 17, Cotton argues, and the second doesn't apply because Rittenhouse wasn't hunting, and therefore wasn't in violation of doing so without a safety education certification.

In a separate motion, Cotton argues that prosecutors can't charge Black with two counts for the same transfer just because two people were killed. It violates constitutional guarantees of due process and against double jeopardy, the motion states.

He notes that, under the state's theory, if Rittenhouse had used the gun over a year and killed 12 people, Black could face 12 counts of providing the gun.

"This absurd conclusion is not supported by a common sense reading of the plain language of the statute, nor by its legislative intent," he wrote.

The motion says prosecutors have the burden of showing the Legislature indeed meant to provide cumulative punishments to the person whose single transfer of a firearm led to multiple deaths.

Schroeder indicated he seemed to agree that the charges "have a multiplicity problem," noting the two counts are identical and don't even identify the two victims.