America's political left explodes after Kyle Rittenhouse acquitted

'The judge. The jury. The defendant. It's white supremacy in action,' ranted Rep. Cori Bush (D-MO) on Twitter

A jury acquitted Kyle Rittenhouse of all charges related to the shooting of three men in Kenosha, Wisconsin in the August 2020

Democrats, the liberal media and Hollywood exploded over a jury's decision to acquit Kyle Rittenhouse of all charges related to the August 2020 shootings of three men in Kenosha, Wisconsin.

'The judge. The jury. The defendant. It's white supremacy in action,' ranted Rep. Cori Bush (D-MO) on Twitter.

'This system isn't built to hold white supremacists accountable,' she tweeted.

'It's why Black and brown folks are brutalized and put in cages while white supremacist murderers walk free. I'm hurt. I'm angry. I'm heartbroken', Bush concluded.

It's more of the same from America's political left, which has been smearing Rittenhouse as a 'white supremacist,' 'domestic terrorist,' vigilante and a murderer for months on end.

Now they're turning their ire on 'the system'.

But apparently, they haven't learned from their mistakes -- as top Democrats continue to repeat outright falsehoods about the case.

'Anthony Huber and Joseph Rosenbaum are victims. They should be alive today,' blurted out deeply unpopular, uber-liberal New York City mayor Bill de Blasio on Twitter, referencing the two men killed by Rittenhouse.

'The only reason they're not is because a violent, dangerous man chose to take a gun across state lines and start shooting people. To call this a miscarriage of justice is an understatement,' he declared, repeating a false claim that anyone with even passing familiarity with the case would know.

Rittenhouse did not cross state lines with a weapon. This falsehood was refuted by Illinois county officials in October 2020 and by courtroom testimony.

De Blasio seemed to excuse his ignorance by tweeting: 'The far-right trolls who think it makes a difference whether a violent gunman got his weapon before or after he crossed state lines are missing the point: two people are dead and their killer is left unaccountable. That's not justice and they know it.'

Rep. Jerry Nadler (D-NY), the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, also misinformed his nearly 500,000 followers.

Nadler tweeted, 'This heartbreaking verdict is a miscarriage of justice and sets a dangerous precedent which justifies federal review by DOJ. Justice cannot tolerate armed persons crossing state lines looking for trouble while people engage in First Amendment-protected protest'.

Progressive 'Squad' leader, Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) claimed that the jury's decision is an indictment of the U.S. judicial system.

'What we are witnessing is a system functioning as designed and protecting those it was designed for,' is what she decided to blast out to her nearly 13 million Twitter followers.

New York Governor Kathy Hochu (D) added this to the discourse: 'Kyle Rittenhouse used an assault weapon to kill two people. This is not justice,' she claimed in part.

All of these declarations from elected-Democrats clashing head-on with remarks from President Joe Biden.

'I stand by with the jury as the jury system has concluded,' he told reporters Friday afternoon as he returned to the White House.

'The jury system works and you have to abide by it.'

Actress Rachel Zegler leading the charge for Hollywood tweeting, 'kyle rittenhouse being acquitted on all charges after such heinous heinous crimes is the epitome of white privilege and exactly what is wrong with this godforsaken country.'

'Justice denied is a body blow to our national psyche,' claimed Star Trek actor-turned activist George Takei.