Kenosha County judge denies prosecutor's request to use evidence of Kyle Rittenhouse's mindset in trial

The judge in the Kyle Rittenhouse case on Friday denied prosecutors' requests to use so-called "other acts" evidence they argue shows the teen's inclination to act like a vigilante, and would reveal his state of mind to jurors.

Kenosha County Circuit Judge Bruce Schroeder also rejected a defense request to introduce evidence that one of Rittenhouse's victims was a convicted pedophile. And he made prosecutors provide addresses for about 27 witnesses that might actually be called, after they first submitted a witness list of 175 people.

At a hearing, which ran more than two hours, Schroeder said he would hold a separate pre-trial hearing next month about whether he'll allow testimony from use-of-force experts that both sides have indicated they want to call.

The trial itself remains set for Nov. 1.

Rittenhouse, now 18, is charged with fatally shooting two people and wounding a third — along with other lesser offenses — during violent protests in Kenosha on Aug. 25, 2020 after the police shooting of Jacob Blake. His lawyer says he acted in self defense.

The prosecution did reveal Friday that it has infrared video from an FBI airplane that they say shows Rittenhouse was chasing his first victim, Joseph Rosenbaum, and said something to him before Rosenbaum then chased him, leading to the fatal encounter seconds later. The defense said it is obtaining the same video soon.

Also left undecided Friday was whether the estimated 150 or so people who will be summoned as possible jurors will be asked to fill out extensive questionnaires before the selection process begins.

Schroeder, Wisconsin's longest serving sitting judge, said he disfavors questionnaires, and expressed concern it would tip recipients off that they could serve in the high-profile Rittenhouse trial — and might prompt even more talk about the case than has already been occurring in town.

He said someone even approached him in a grocery store and said they'd love to serve on the Rittenhouse jury, adding: "Of course, that person will not."

Schroeder said he's concerned about some of the questions lawyers have proposed concerning issues like support for certain political movements, guns, or memberships.

"This is not and won't be a political trial," he said.

But both sides urged him to use a questionnaire, to speed jury selection and help screen out people with the most strongly held views before they "contaminate" other potential jurors during traditional voir dire, where people in a group answer questions from lawyers in person.

Schroeder seemed confident a jury could be selected in one day, without a questionnaire ahead of time, but said he'd revisit the matter and decide next week whether one — with limited queries — could be sent out.

Judge rejects evidence on 'prior acts'

Assistant District Attorney Thomas Binger argued repeatedly that three incidents involving Rittenhouse go "to what I posit strong theory of case — that he's essentially a teen vigilante involving himself in things that don't concern him."

One video shows Rittenhouse striking a girl who was fighting with his sister in June 2020. One from Aug. 15, 2020 shows him and a friend watching from inside a car as people — whom Rittenhouse believes are looters — leave a CVS store across the street, while Rittenhouse says he wished he had his rifle so he could shoot at them. The still photos are of Rittenhouse posing with members of the Proud Boys at a Racine County tavern after a hearing in his case in January.

Binger said he expects the defense to portray Rittenhouse as a community-minded altruist, so jurors need to hear about his other state of mind. "It helps illuminate the truth for the jury," he said.