The bias that found Kyle Rittenhouse not guilty sends other people to jail

The Kyle Rittenhouse not-guilty verdict is an illustration of our nation's deeply lodged beliefs about the kinds of kids who belong in prison and the kinds who don't.

In a lot of ways, we see those beliefs displayed right here in Connecticut as Republican lawmakers try to scare residents into believing that Black and brown kids have launched a concerted and organized campaign to steal (unlocked) cars and wreak havoc in neighborhoods.

It's untrue, of course. And if I were among the residents Republicans are targeting, which I'm comfortably not, I'd find it insulting that my elected officials think speaking to the tribal instinct in me is a sufficient enough campaign strategy to secure re-election.

It's why a predator like Brock Turner, the Stanford University athlete who was convicted of sexually assaulting a young woman behind a dumpster, can garner empathy from the trial judge in his case. "A prison sentence would have a severe impact on him," said Santa Clara County Superior Court Judge Aaron Persky, adding that he didn't believe Turner would be "a danger to others" — even though he already had been.

It's why an 18-year-old white male like Rittenhouse can drive from one city to another, be armed for a fight, kill two people, injure another, and be treated like a prodigal son who made an honest mistake in an act of mere self-defense. Over the course of the trial, as the court disallowed words of empathy for the shooting victims and offered space for a tearful killer to plead his case, I've been reminded of how willing our nation is to offer the benefit of the doubt to some while clanking a prison-cell door and throwing away the key for others. Rittenhouse was acquitted on all charges by a 12-person jury on Nov. 19.

Across the board, active biases like these are easy to spot but hard to tackle. According to Iliana Pujols, policy director with the Connecticut Justice Alliance (CTJA), that's partly because battles over ideological rhetoric are hard to win.

"It's a really hard fight because we're up against racist ideas," she said. "Not just actions."

"I think this is a perfect time to compare the issues we're seeing in Connecticut to Kenosha," Pujols said, "because it's an empathy issue. The Republican Party doesn't know where these kids are coming from. They can't relate to them."

After hosting a number of focus groups they call "vision sessions" in West Hartford to shine a light on issues impacting urban youth, Pujols said it's clear that those with privilege or in power are making decisions based on a lack of information and predisposed beliefs about youth from places like Waterbury, Hartford, New Haven and Bridgeport.

"Everyone's eager to invest in crime prevention now, but that's only because the problem, small as it may be, is coming into their neighborhoods," she said.

That thin border between the inner city and the suburb is often highly policed to ensure there isn't crime creeping into places where it "doesn't belong." Policies to beat city crimes back into the downtown area or low-income neighborhoods are all erected in the spirit of security theater, suggesting that as long as the families with the largest lawns feel safe, that's a job well done.