Can Kyle Rittenhouse face federal charges? House judiciary chairman calls for DOJ review

Following the acquittal of Kyle Rittenhouse, who plead self-defense in the fatal shooting of two men and wounding of a third during a night of protests in Kenosha, Wisconsin, in August 2020, House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerry Nadler, D-N.Y., called for a federal review of the verdict by the U.S. Department of Justice.

"This heartbreaking verdict is a miscarriage of justice and sets a dangerous precedent whih justifies federal review by DOJ. Justice cannot tolerate armed persons crossing state lines looking for trouble while people engage in First Amendment-protected protest," Nadler wrote in a tweet posted Friday afternoon.

Can Kyle Rittenhouse face federal charges?

In order for Rittenhouse to face federal charges, there are several complicated factors that could make it unlikely for federal prosecutors to pursue a case.

For most homicide cases, federal law typically only applies in crimes that specifically violate federal law. According to Shouse Law Group, a criminal justice team in Los Angeles, the crime of murder "is prosecuted in state courts as a state crime. But murder becomes a federal crime when it occurs in violation of federal law, or when it takes place on a federal land or territory."

Shouse Law Group writes, "The federal crime of murder is defined as the 'unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought.' In general, there are seven scenarios when an unlawful killing violates the laws of the federal government."

According to the law group, these include when:

the murder is of a federal judge or a federal law enforcement official

the killing is of an immediate family member of a federal law enforcement official

the murder is of an elected or appointed federal official

the killing is committed during a bank robbery

the killing takes place aboard a ship at sea that is engaged in interstate commerce per the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution

the murder was designed to influence a court case

the killing takes place on federal property

Rittenhouse was not accused of a hate crime and because he is not a member of law enforcement, he cannot be charged with depriving anyone of their civil rights as a federal agent. Rittenhouse was also not accused of a robbery on federal property or involving a federal business.

The charges Rittenhouse was facing became a flashpoint in the debate over guns, vigilantism and racial justice in the country.