Media pushes false narrative of Rittenhouse

Rittenhouse was not guilty, but when it comes to irresponsible and false reporting, the media is.

Folks, if your anxiety is rising and your blood pressure is off the charts and you wonder if the wrong horse is pulling the American cart, Dr. Truth has your diagnosis: You are experiencing the fallout from being in the very eye of troubling times where most Americans believe that the only constant in their lives is in the daily chaos which surrounds them.

Now more than ever, Americans are desperate for something to believe in anything upon which they can find their emotional footing and restore their faith that America is headed in the right direction. Try as you might however, you won't find that needed renewal by what you read in the media — the Fourth Estate — as the American press is not your partner in restoring your faith in America, its sacred institutions or its people. Instead, the media are pot-stirrers of the first order and shameless instigators of division.

As found in a recent Reuters Institute Poll, the United States press ranks last in media trust, at 29 percent, which is about seven points lower than Joe Biden's present approval rating, indicating just how low the press can go.

Nowhere was this lack of trust more magnified than in the media's reporting of the State of Wisconsin vs. Kyle Rittenhouse.

If you truly believed all of the amalgamated press on the Kyle Rittenhouse case prior to the presentation of a somewhat important thing called "evidence" at an "actual trial", you might have been led to believe that: Kyle Rittenhouse was a white supremacist/domestic terrorist who carried an illegal rifle across state lines to Kenosha, WI, a place upon which he had no ties, to murder two black men and recklessly and without cause, injure a third man during an otherwise peaceful, non-violent civil protest on Aug. 25, 2020.

Well, at least part of that above scenario is true; Kyle Rittenhouse was in Kenosha on Aug. 25. The rest was simply a false narrative pushed by an irresponsible media.

No evidence existed that Rittenhouse believed in the superiority of the white race and as was the case with Loudon County Virginia parents (complaining to their school board over CRT instruction and same-sex bathrooms) there equally was zero evidence to label Mr. Rittenhouse a domestic terrorist.

Moreover, he did not carry a rifle across state lines and it was not illegal for him to possess that rifle under Wisconsin Law which is made infinitely clear by photos, post verdict, of a 16 year old black female carrying a similar rifle in Kenosha while providing security for those protesting the Rittenhouse verdict.