Kyle Rittenhouse keeps himself in the public-eye after acquittal

KENOSHA, Wis. (CBS 58) -- Friday, Nov. 26, marks one week since Kyle Rittenhouse was acquitted of all charges. Since then, Rittenhouse has remained in the public eye.

Shortly after Kyle Rittenhouse was found not guilty, his attorney Mark Richards held a news conference, and off-camera, hinted what Rittenhouse did next was up to Rittenhouse

"Mark you think he'll ever talk?" Richards was asked.

"Probably, I'm not in charge of his media," Richards said.

Hours later Fox News' Tucker Carlson announced an exclusive with the 18-year-old and that Rittenhouse allowed Carlson's film crew to tag along during the months leading up to trial, despite objections from his legal team.

"I did not approve of that," Richards told CNN. "I threw them out of the room several times."

In a post-verdict interview, Richards says he did his best to advise Rittenhouse on his future.

"I had a talk with Kyle, all I can say is what I say and Kyle is going to have some hard choices in his life and what direction he goes and what he stands for," Richards said. "Those will have to be made by Kyle eventually. And as Corey [Chirafisi] and I told him yesterday while we were waiting for the verdict, he needs to learn how to take responsibility and to tell people no."

After the Carlson interview aired, Rittenhouse kept himself in the public eye, traveling to Florida to visit former President Donald Trump, posing for pictures.

"Under the law, he's considered innocent, he hasn't been convicted of anything so he's free to do whatever he wants to do," said Julius Kim, a legal expert.

Kim says just because Rittenhouse can do what he wants, doesn't mean his actions won't' hurt him. Especially if any civil cases are filed against him.

"It's never good to have a witness or client go out and make more statements than they need to because ultimately those statements can be turned around and used against them because you never know where litigation might lead to down the road," Kim said. "So I personally don't think it's a great idea for him to continue doing interviews and seen out there but those are some of the dangers that are you have when you're involved in a high profile case that Mr. Richards was hinting at."

Legal experts say if Rittenhouse profits off his notoriety from the case, it increases the likelihood he will be the target of lawsuits from those impacted by the night of August 25, 2020.