After Capitol riot and son's death, Rep. Raskin says he's taking on new threat: Trump

Democrats are pursuing both impeachment and the 25th Amendment to remove Trump.

After Capitol riot and son's death, Rep. Raskin says he's taking on new threat: Trump

Maryland Rep. Jamie Raskin had just buried his 25-year-old son last week when, a day later, he entered the United States Capitol with his youngest daughter to carry out his sworn duty to certify the election of President-elect Joe Biden.

Hours after Raskin entered the Capitol with his daughter and a son-in-law, his family faced a violent insurrection, which now marks one of the most horrific days in modern U.S. history.

Raskin was named the House's lead manager in Trump's impeachment trial this week. He authored a House resolution calling on Vice President Mike Pence to invoke the 25th amendment and then drafted articles of impeachment accusing President Donald Trump of "incitement of insurrection."

On Jan. 20, Trump will be forced to step down and President-elect Joe Biden will take power. With the end of his term approaching, some people have questioned why Congress would pursue Trump's removal from office.

"We're trying to put every tool in the constitutional toolkit on the table," Raskin told ABC News' daily podcast "Start Here." "The president is a clear and present danger to the people and to the republic. So we have to use whatever levers are still available to us to remove him from office."

Raskin said he hoped the 25th Amendment, which would remove Trump from his post and put Pence in power, would be "a middle ground solution that everybody, people who are strongly for impeachment and people who are against impeachment, can converge upon."

As an alternative route, he believes impeachment will pass on Wednesday.

"I think there's overwhelming sentiment that this president cannot remain in office another single day," Raskin said. "We need him out of office. He is a clear and present danger to the people of the United States right now."

With regard to Trump's first impeachment, Rasking said the "Senate did not do their duty and did not convict and remove him." The president, he said, has continued to commit "impeachable offenses."