'Untouchable super citizens': Will the Rittenhouse verdict fuel vigilantism - or a needed step toward more freedom

The reaction to the Rittenhouse verdict has been as polarizing as the trial itself: Right-wing groups celebrating, the NRA declaring victory, and liberal leaders decrying the decision as a harbinger of lawless vigilantism and domestic terrorism.

The Rittenhouse case became a flashpoint on many of the most divisive issues across the country: the right to bear arms, police brutality, racial injustice and the rise of right-wing militia groups. The teen became a hero in Republican corners and a symbol to the left of the rise of white nationalism and armed militia groups.

Rittenhouse, 18, fatally shot two men and injured a third with an AR-15 styled rifle during often violent protests in the summer of 2020 following the police shooting of Jacob Blake, a Black man, in Kenosha, Wisconsin. Rittenhouse argued he feared for his life and had no choice but to open fire on the men, who were among those protesting. During the trial, prosecutors painted Rittenhouse as a teen vigilante, who wasn't old enough to purchase the rifle he was carrying. They said he incited the shootings and traveled to the city with other during the protests specifically looking for trouble.

The case and not-guilty-on-all-counts verdict highlighted many of the divisions in the country, and the impact on gun rights and protests could be deep-rooted.

"Today's Rittenhouse case highlights the deadly consequences of the 'shoot first, ask questions second' mentality," said Igor Volsky, co-founder of Guns Down America, a national group that advocates for stricter gun laws. He added on Twitter that the verdict "will only invite greater political violence at the hands of individuals who believe their guns transform them into untouchable super citizens."

On the flip side of the coin are gun-rights activists such as U.S. Rep. Lauren Boebert of Colorado, who says the verdict is an important victory for America.

Boebert, in a text to USA TODAY, said the "verdict is a win for self defense, a win for the Second Amendment, a win for blind justice and a win for common sense." She added, "if Kyle is looking for an internship, he should reach out."

A nation divided on one verdict: Kyle Rittenhouse verdict reactions from 'Justice system broken' to 'Justice system worked'

Will numbers of armed protesters rise after Rittenhouse verdict?

The number of armed protests across the country was already picking back up, researchers say. And activist groups and others say they worry the verdict could have an impact on one of the core rights enshrined in the Constitution — the right to assemble — with concerns ranging from more violence at protests to possible reductions in the number and size of demonstrations out of fears of armed groups.

Civil rights activist Rev. Al Sharpton said the verdict was an "obvious signal that encourages and notifies 'vigilantes' that they can continue to use violence to assert their power, and more importantly that they are above the criminal justice system when they do."