Kenosha protesters, rallying after Rittenhouse verdict, call for focus on case of sex trafficking victim Chrystul Kizer

A group of demonstrators gathered Sunday afternoon in Kenosha to decry Kyle Rittenhouse's acquittal and to demand change for the future.

Just two days after the verdict, many have turned their focus to a case to another Kenosha teen who claims to have killed in self-defense. The protesters called for justice for Chrystul Kizer, a sex trafficking victim who is accused of killing her abuser when she was 17 years old.

During a rally in Civic Center Park and a march through the downtown area, demonstrators chanted Kizer's name in the same breath as the names of the three men Rittenhouse shot, two fatally.

"We've seen that Rittenhouse can get away with premeditated murder. Chrystul Kizer should be able to actually defend herself," said Jess Singh, a Kenosha resident and member of the Party of Socialism and Liberation, a Milwaukee and Chicago-based group.

State Rep. David Bowen called on the protesters to take up Kizer's case with the same energy they put into Rittenhouse and Jacob Blake, who was shot seven times by Kenosha police last summer.

Bowen, D-Milwaukee, is running for lieutenant governor.

"Now you've got a chance to prove yourself. Now you've got a chance to change the narrative," he said. "That if you truly believe in justice, just like the Lord believes in justice, then you too can fight for justice for that Black woman, who deserves it."

Lorna Revere of Racine, who held a sign that read, "No justice, no peace," said she would never stop fighting for social justice issues. She and a contingent of other Racine residents have been avid participants in rallies and marches since the murder of George Floyd, she said.

Kizer's case was front-of-mind for Revere on Sunday.

"My heart and my concern is with Chrystul Kizer," Revere said. "She is not forgotten."

For Revere, who follows hot-button cases religiously, Kizer's case and Rittenhouse's acquittal come in a long line of injustices in the court system.

"The anger that hits all people, Black people, white people, that are concerned about the racism that this country faces, is like — it just stabs you in the chest time and time and time again," Revere said.

That anger was evident in those who spoke at the rally. It was infused with a determination to continue fighting for change.

"We easily could give up. We easily could stop at this moment, but we are not," Bowen said.