They rioted at the Capitol for Trump. Now, many of those arrested say it's his fault.

They broke through barricades, shattered windows and seized control of the U.S. Capitol, some making death threats against members of Congress hiding inside, others brutalizing the police officers who stood in their way.

As the cases against nearly 200 of the Capitol rioters begin to wind through federal court, many of the defendants blame the commander in chief they followed for the violence that left five dead during the insurrection Jan. 6.

In court documents, media interviews and through official attorney statements, staunch supporters of former President Donald Trump who carried out the attempted coup argue they were merely doing what they thought the nation's leader had asked, some citing a cult-like loyalty.

Though experts said it's unlikely the Senate would call the alleged rioters as witnesses, a handful volunteered to testify against Trump in his impeachment proceedings. Short of that, legal scholars said, Congress could enter their statements about Trump's influence into the record during the Senate trial.

The notion that accused insurrectionists were following the call of the president will not likely be enough to prove innocence in their own individual cases, legal experts said, but Trump's purported influence over their thinking could lead to reduced punishments and mitigated sentences as part of plea deals, especially for those with no prior criminal histories.

"Trump didn't get in the car and drive him to D.C., but it's important to understand the context," said attorney Clint Broden, who represents Garret Miller in Texas. The Department of Justice used Miller's own social media posts to charge him with entering the Capitol and threatening U.S. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., whom he said should be assassinated.

U.S. Department of Justice Facebook Reddit Share this article on Reddit Clint Broden, attorney for accused Capitol rioter Garret Miller Trump didn't get in the car and drive him to D.C., but it's important to understand the context. U.S. Department of Justice

"You have to understand the cult mentality," Broden said. "They prey on vulnerable victims and give them a sense of purpose. In this case, Trump convinced his cult followers that they were working to preserve democracy."

In an 80-page brief outlining arguments to support the impeachment charge, House managers focused on Trump's statements in the months leading up to Jan. 6. Before Congress set out to confirm the Electoral College results that day, Trump spoke to thousands of supporters at the Ellipse, roughly 1.5 miles from the Capitol.

He told them, "We fight like hell, and if you don't fight like hell, you're not going to have a country anymore."

The House brief says Trump aimed his supporters "like a loaded cannon."

Capitol riot arrests: See who's been charged across the U.S. Read more

Trump's defense attorneys, led by Bruce Castor and David Schoen, denied in a 14-page reply brief last week that he incited the crowd, saying his statement about fighting did not have "anything to do with the action at the Capitol."

In a trial memorandum filed this week, Trump's attorneys placed the blame on the rioters, calling them "a small group of criminals who deserve punishment to the fullest extent of the law."

In charging documents and court records, the FBI cites social media feeds, media statements and its own agents' interviews with at least 29 people arrested for taking part in the riot who said they came to Washington to support Trump or were doing what he told them to do.

Robert Bauer told FBI agents he marched to the Capitol from the rally where he heard Trump speak because the president told him to.

Jorge Riley, who traveled to Washington from Sacramento, California, posted on Facebook that morning, "I'm here to see what my President called me to DC for." He ended up charged with violently entering the Capitol.

U.S. Department of Justice Facebook Reddit Share this article on Reddit Jorge Riley, accused Capitol rioter I'm here to see what my President called me to DC for. U.S. Department of Justice

Jacob Chansley became perhaps the most recognizable intruder after he entered the Capitol and sat in the vice president's chair, bare-chested with his face painted and a horned, fur-lined headdress atop his head. He told the FBI he came to Washington because Trump asked all "patriots" to do so.

After Trump left office without pardoning any of the rioters, Chansley's lawyer said his client would be willing to testify against Trump in the impeachment hearing.