Risky decision to testify pays off for Rittenhouse, law professor says

In testimony that took nearly all of Wednesday, 18-year-old Kyle Rittenhouse detailed step-by-step his actions on the day he killed two people and wounded a third during protests against police brutality last summer in Kenosha.

Rittenhouse got emotional as he tried to describe the first shooting and during cross-examination his attorneys filed for a mistrial during what UW-Madison School of Law professor Ion Meyn says was a confusing day for the prosecution.

Rittenhouse, who is facing charges of reckless, intentional and attempted homicide, repeatedly said he didn't do anything wrong and only shot his AR-15 rifle because he believed his life was in danger.

Late in the afternoon, lead prosecutor Thomas Binger, showing a number of videos of the night, questioned Rittenhouse about why he needed to be carrying the rifle and why he considered the men he shot a threat. Meyn says this line of questioning was one of the few times the prosecution made up some ground, but it took too long to get to those questions and by then Binger may have lost the attention of the jury.

"I didn't understand where the prosecutor was going with his cross," Meyn, who has worked for the Wisconsin State Public Defender and the Wisconsin Innocence Project, says. "There should be no guessing. The general rule in cross-examination is, either you know the answer or don't care what the answer is. I felt that rule was not being followed. There was always one question too many, even if the prosecution sort of made a point, he asked that one additional question to further explain what he meant. By the time they got to what I thought was their most effective cross-examination of the day, it was the very end of the day. By that time you might have lost half the jury. To lose half the jury during a cross-examination of the defendant himself is a problem."

Binger started his cross-examination by asking about events much earlier in the night and occasionally took tangents into topics such as Rittenhouse's video game preferences or the fact that he ignored the citywide curfew in Kenosha that night.

"If that's what you're basing your murder charge on, then you have big problems," Meyn said. "I don't know what that was supposed to accomplish except sympathy for the defendant. The optics for the prosecution would be terrible, the last thing they want to emphasize is that it's a kid."

"They started with the curfew, oh my gosh," he adds. "You have a murder case and you're talking about a curfew violation first? Who cares if someone's not supposed to be there, what does it have to do with intentional homicide?"

Instead of focusing on video games or curfew violations, Meyn says he would have focused more on why Rittenhouse thought his life was threatened and how he could claim that he himself wasn't a threat to Joseph Rosenbaum, Anthony Huber and Gaige Grosskreutz, his victims.

"I would have gone through each of these things, these people aren't related, aren't together, aren't in a gang, none of them know each other," Meyn says, "That should be the emphasis of the cross. You shot three people in three minutes. You describe a mob, no one here knew each other. These incidents had space between them. And then the first two didn't have a weapon."

"How strong does that get after he shoots someone, after he's running down the street with an AR-15?" he continues. "That is a threat. I would've focused on Grosskreutz, when you saw him with a gun he became a threat, yes? So it's OK that you — it's reasonable when you see someone with a gun [to view them as a threat] but not when he sees someone with a gun?"

The decision over whether or not a defendant should testify is always a risky one for the defense, but according to Meyn it mostly paid off for Rittenhouse.

"Rittenhouse as a witness did phenomenal," he says. "[He] maintained control of his narrative during the entirety of cross. Never waivered, regardless how many times he was asked to admit x, y or z. That's extraordinary."