What we know about the suspect in the Michigan high school shooting

CNN — School bells were replaced by police sirens Tuesday after a shooting at Michigan's Oxford High School left four students dead.

Six other students and a teacher were wounded by gunfire. A 15-year-old suspect is in custody and has been charged as an adult, authorities said.

His parents were charged with involuntary manslaughter Friday in connection with their son's alleged actions, and they were arrested Saturday in Detroit after an hours-long search, authorities said.

The attack was the deadliest US school shooting since eight students and two teachers were slain in May 2018 at Texas' Santa Fe High School, according to a CNN tally. There have been 48 shootings this year on K-12 campuses, 32 of them since August 1.

Here's what we know about Tuesday's shooting:

How the incident unfolded

Deputies were dispatched to the school at 12:52 p.m., Oakland County Sheriff Michael Bouchard said, noting more than 100 911 calls were placed.

As police were swarming the campus, students and staff began barricading doors and hiding in classrooms.

Law enforcement officers quickly entered the building and had the suspect in custody within three minutes of their arrival, the sheriff said.

Once the suspect encountered the officers, he put his hands up and they took a gun from him before placing him in custody.

The weapon deputies said was used in the shooting, a 9 mm Sig Sauer SP2022 semiautomatic pistol, was purchased by the suspect's father on Friday, four days before the shootings at the school, Bouchard said.

Three 15-round magazines were found at the scene, and the gun had seven rounds of ammunition, Bouchard said. Investigators recovered more than 30 shell casings, said the sheriff.

"We believe he fired at least 30 shots," he said.

The suspect had 18 rounds left, with seven in his pocket, Bouchard said.

"With this much ammunition still with him ... the quick actions of the school and the lockdown as well as the deputies going to the danger, saved lives," Bouchard said.

An Oakland County sheriff's deputy assigned to the school helped take the suspect into custody, Undersheriff Michael McCabe said.

Investigators believe no other weapons were involved, and there's no indication the suspect was wearing body armor.

No shots were fired by responding law enforcement, and the suspect was not injured, McCabe said.

What we know about the victims

The four who died were Madisyn Baldwin, 17, Tate Myre, 16, Hana St. Juliana, 14, and Justin Shilling, 17, officials said. Tate died in a patrol car as a deputy was rushing him to a hospital, Bouchard said. Justin died Wednesday morning, according to the sheriff's office.

Seven others – six students and a teacher – were also shot, Bouchard said.

Among the wounded were a 14-year-old girl who initially was on a ventilator following surgery, but was off the ventilator and in stable condition Wednesday, officials said. A 14-year-old boy also had a gunshot wound to the jaw and head. The teacher, a 15-year-old and 17-year-old boy were discharged, Bouchard said Wednesday.

What we know about the suspect

The suspect is Ethan Crumbley, 15, a sophomore at the school, authorities said. He is being held at the Oakland County Jail.

Oakland County Prosecutor Karen D. McDonald said the suspect has been charged with the following:

one count of terrorism causing death

four counts of first-degree murder

seven counts of assault with intent to murder

12 counts of possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony.

Michigan law prevents police from talking to a juvenile without parental permission, and the suspect's parents have refused that permission and requested a lawyer, Bouchard said.

"It is possible there could be additional charges" when the investigation is complete, McDonald said.

Ethan Crumbley's parents, James and Jennifer Crumbley, were charged with four counts of involuntary manslaughter and were initially scheduled to be arraigned Friday afternoon.

The Crumbleys were considered fugitives after missing their court hearing. Early Saturday, police said they arrested the couple in a Detroit warehouse after receiving a tip that their car was nearby.