Ethan Crumbley's parents: Prosecutors say Michigan shooting suspect's parents willfully disregarded signs that their son was a threat

CNN — Prosecutors in a filing say the parents of alleged Oxford High School shooter Ethan Crumbley are at a "greater risk of flight" now than when they were arraigned on involuntary manslaughter charges earlier this month and allege the couple "willfully ignored the needs and well-being of their son and the threat he posed to others."

Ethan Crumbley, 15, has been charged as an adult in the November 30 shooting at Oxford High School in Michigan that left four students dead. The shooting also left seven others – six students and a teacher – injured.

Crumbley faces one count of terrorism causing death, four counts of first-degree murder, seven counts of assault with intent to murder and 12 counts of possession of a firearm during the commission of a felony. At arraignment the judge entered a plea of not guilty per a request from Crumbley's attorney.

James and Jennifer Crumbley were arrested on four counts each of involuntary manslaughter and have pleaded not guilty.

"Defendants were in a better position than anyone else in the world to prevent this tragedy, but they failed to do so," the filing states.

CNN has contacted attorneys for the couple for comment.

The prosecutors' filing is in response to the Crumbleys' request for modified bond and details how the couple is more than $11,000 behind on their house payments, have sold their horses and have "already shown that they will flee if they get the opportunity." The filing also details that the parents had four cell phones at the time of their arrest and "attempted to destroy one of the phones."

In the filing, prosecutors said the bond was "properly set" at $500,000.

"The facts laid out in the brief we submitted to the court today speak for themselves," Oakland County, Michigan, Chief Assistant Prosecutor David Williams said in a statement. "And based on those facts, we strongly believe that the bond for James and Jennifer Crumbley was set appropriately."

The filing alleges that when the Crumbleys left their son's school on November 30, over an hour before the shooting began, they knew their son was depressed and "fascinated with guns."

James Crumbley, Ethan Crumbley and Jennifer Crumbley. Oakland County Sheriff's Office

The filing details Ethan Crumbley's state of mind in the six months before the shooting, saying his parents were aware that he was "sadder than usual," that his only friend had moved away, and that he was sending his mother disturbing texts about his state of mind.