Oxford High School shooting: Star athlete Tate Myre was willing to sacrifice for others

Where's Tate?

After the shooting at Oxford High School on Monday, Buck Myre was searching for his son, Tate, at the Meijer, a staging area for survivors.

"I was walking with Buck and we couldn't find Tate," said JR Laefner, the public address announcer at Oxford football games and a Myre family friend.

Then, Buck Myre came to a realization.

"Buck looked right at me," Laefner said, "and he said: 'You know who would go take that guy out, right?' "

"I know," Laefner said.

Ross Wingert, who coached Tate in football and wrestling, was one of the first to reach the Meijer. In the middle of a chaotic scene, Wingert was told by multiple students that when the gunfire started, Tate ran toward the gunman.

"I was told that everybody in that school was running one way, and Tate was running the other way," Wingert said.

Toward the shooting.

Hours later, the Oakland County Sheriff's Office confirmed the horrible news: Tate Myre, 16, had been shot. A sheriff's deputy put him into a squad car and tried to rush him to the hospital, but he died en route.

Tate was one of four students who have died from gunshot wounds during Tuesday's attack.

Myre's funeral has been scheduled for 10 a.m. Tuesday at Kensington Church in Lake Orion.

A life of sacrifice

If Tate did run toward the gunman trying to make the shooting stop, it will likely be confirmed by the school's videotape system.

Oakland County Sheriff Mike Bouchard said Tuesday night there's no video evidence to suggest that a civilian or student tried to disarm the shooter.

But it certainly fit into Tate's persona, according to those who knew him best.

"Knowing Tate, knowing how he was raised, he's the kind of kid that wouldn't think about it twice," Wingert said. "And he's gonna do it."

Wingert sent a text message to several of his coaching friends on Tuesday night after the shooting. He wanted to tell them about Tate.

CHILLING VIDEO: Pandemonium inside Oxford High School classroom during shooting

"I told them that Tate is the fastest, most athletic kid in that school," Wingert said. "There's no way he couldn't have gotten out of there if he wanted to. He would have been the No. 1 candidate to be able to run out of that school if he wanted to. I know Tate chose to do what he thought was right and he made the ultimate sacrifice."

Sacrifice was in Tate's DNA.

He was a star wrestler, who was asked to wrestle up a weight class for the good of the team, and he did it without question.

"He did what he was asked to do," Wingert said. "And he did it with a full heart, too."