After Oxford High shooting, Michigan teachers ask: How do we keep going?

Two days after the Nov. 30 shooting at Oxford High School, advanced placement U.S. history and civics teacher Richard Mui arrived at his own high school 60 miles away to find his students distraught.

Overnight, threats of violence directed at schools across the state had started to spread across social media. Dozens of Michigan school districts had already determined that the threats were not credible but some cancelled classes for the day out of an abundance of caution. Many people did not know about the threats until after they arrived at school.

After his first-hour class at Canton High School, Mui went downstairs to share the students' concerns with the administration and found a long line of students already outside the attendance office being excused and picked up early by their parents.

The students were "more nervous than I've seen them in a classroom before," Mui said. "That's when it kind of hit home for me. I have students in the class that are asking about safety procedures, 'Can we lock the door?' and things like that, which I don't think the students ever cared about, whether the doors locked or not."

By 8:50 a.m. that morning, Plymouth-Canton Community Schools announced the decision to dismiss its three high schools at 9:30 a.m., writing to students, staff and families that although law enforcement had determined that there was no direct threat, "the fear and anxiety at the P-CEP campus has caused significant disruption to the learning environment."

Situations like these are becoming routine in Michigan as the state continues to grapple with the after-effects of the state's deadliest school attack in nearly a century. In the days and weeks following the shootings at Oxford High School, as copycat threats, bomb threats, and real and suspected weapons on campus locked down schools and cancel classes, teachers, parents, and students around Michigan worry about managing an educational environment already fragile from nearly two years of pandemic shutdowns and disruptions. Threats of school violence Dec. 17 were deemed not credible by the Department of Homeland Security, but they still prompted heightened school security or closures in several states across the country, including in Michigan, where the state police acknowledged the threat.

Much of the stress and uncertainty falls on educators. In interviews across the state, teachers told the PBS NewsHour they are tired, frustrated, and angry about continued gun violence in schools. In addition to their usual lessons – and answering students' questions about school shootings – teachers also have their own questions: How much can teachers manage? And what are the consequences if they don't?

"I'm now seeing things from the teacher perspective and the parent perspective," Stacey Olsen, a social studies teacher at Seaholm High School in Birmingham, said. "That's giving me even more to contemplate. The professional has become even more personal."

Students have questions

Ryan Werenka, an advanced placement government and political science teacher at Troy High School for 22 years, told the PBS NewsHour that every year, a historic event occurs – national, international, or in this case very local – that forces him to set aside his lesson plan and debrief with his students to help them process the information, their thoughts, and their feelings. The day after the shooting at Oxford was that day.

He said students were unnerved because the shootings happened so close, about 20 miles from their school. Other students expressed fear about whether they were safe on school grounds, while some students were just trying to process why this happened and understand what would happen next.