Oregon schools see rise in threats of violence following deadly Oxford school shooting

Schools across Oregon have had to respond to multiple threats, real and false, in the past week following the tragedy at Oxford High School in Michigan where a student shot and killed four people and injured seven.

The event in Michigan had ripple effects through the country, with hyper-vigilance and a rise nationwide in similar "copycat" threats circulating via social media and word-of-mouth among students, some as young as 9 years old.

In Oregon, police responded to and investigated threats in the Bethel and Eugene school districts last week that stemmed from social media posts, including a student who was arrested Tuesday at Willamette High School in the Bethel district. On Tuesday, Portland Public Schools also had to issue lockdowns and lockouts for three schools after a student allegedly robbed another with a weapon off campus, then came to school. Lebanon High School also was locked down, and South Albany High School had a false report of threat, as reported by the Albany Democrat-Herald.

"We've spoken to many, many parents this week who are concerned about this across the region," said Kraig Sproles, superintendent of the Bethel School District. "What we're seeing is a lot of our students either hearing about a threat or mentioning it themselves. And we need to take that really seriously."

It's not surprising there were more threat concerns on the heels of Nov. 30 shooting in Michigan, Sproles said, as people often are more anxious following a violent act at schools involving guns.

"So I think that's part of it, but I also just think it's at a time when we as a society are a little bit more on edge and less resilient than we normally would be," he said.

Bethel had three separate incidents that were reported to staff last week, he said. One was regarding a text back-and-forth between two students in conflict. Another was a student conversation that involved a gun.

Sproles said they took care of that second incident, "but then it kind of took on a life of its own on social media."

Supporting students: How parents can help students cope with Oxford school shooting

The third was regarding a Willamette High School student who said they had a gun at school, prompting students to alert staff and have a brief lockdown Tuesday. When Eugene police responded and searched the student, no weapon was found. The student purported to have a gun and was carrying "another object" that could give the appearance of a gun, Eugene police spokesperson Melinda McLaughlin said Wednesday. The student was arrested for disorderly conduct in the first degree.

Sproles said in each instance, students brought their concerns to an adult they trusted, which is exactly what they should do.

After hearing a student's concerns, Bethel staff are then prompted by their emergency training to take proper action depending on the situation.

"There's a chart in every single room that teachers and other staff can use to get the step-by-step information of what to do in an emergency," Bethel spokesperson Alisha Dodds said. "So regardless of the emergency, they have that information at hand."

Bethel also has training for an active threat called ALICE, a protocol used in schools across the nation, which stands for Alert, Lockdown, Inform, Counter, Evacuate.

Lessons learned

The biggest thing the recent incidents revealed for the district, though, was it needs to work out a better way of communicating with families in these situations.

"We need better communication with parents, in both communication during an event, and then communication immediately following an event, and in a time when most high school students have cellphones, they are texting their parents or communicating with their parents or community during an emergency totally different than they have in the past," Sproles said.

Setbacks: Latest Oregon report card shows school enrollment declines, setbacks for some students to graduation

Inaccurate or incomplete information can easily be spread this way or via social media, and the district isn't always able to match that immediacy in the moment. To improve on this, the district is planning on holding a meeting with Willamette High parents this week, with the central topic of how to better work together.

"I think for parents, we need a little bit of feedback on the communication they expect during an emergency and what we can commit to providing," Sproles said.

Students also will be having more focused conversations about the incidents in homeroom.