Oxford High School: Michigan shooting could have been prevented, prosecutor says

CNN — One week after a school shooting in Michigan that killed four students and led to the manhunt and arrest of the suspect's parents, officials are wondering how the tragedy could have been prevented.

Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald said Monday that the bloodshed could have been avoided had the suspect's parents been more forthcoming about his access to firearms.

"I'm certainly not suggesting that parents should be criminally prosecuted for any bad act of a child," McDonald told CNN's Brianna Keilar. "But in this case, you can't possibly look at their actions and say that they didn't have reason to believe that there was real concern about a violent act."

Ethan Crumbley, 15, is accused of fatally shooting four classmates and wounding several others on November 30. His parents were charged with four counts of involuntary manslaughter in the same incident. All three have pleaded not guilty.

Prosecutors allege that James Crumbley, the father of the suspected shooter, bought the gun used in the shooting four days earlier. His mother, Jennifer, posted about the gun on social media, calling it "his new Christmas present."

"All of this could have been prevented if he hadn't had access (to a gun) or if just one of those parents had said, 'I'm concerned about what I'm seeing right now and I also want you to know we just bought him a gun for Christmas,' and that didn't happen," McDonald said, adding that the evidence against them is "just really hard to stomach."

These are red flags students and schools can look our for to help prevent school shootings

Crumbley had a meeting with school officials and his parents on Tuesday after a teacher was concerned over violent statements and drawings he made. After being instructed to find counseling within 48 hours and allowed to return to class, he began shooting others in between class periods.

Prosecutors say it is likely the firearm was in his backpack during the meeting, and the school had legal grounds to search his bag and locker.

The four students who were killed: Madisyn Baldwin, 17; Tate Myre, 16; Hana St. Juliana, 14; and Justin Shilling, 17. Six other students and a teacher were wounded by gunfire.

Warning signs were missed

Casey Smith, whose daughter is a student at Oxford High and was standing in the hallway near where the shooting started, told CNN's Erin Burnett on Monday that he and others find it "incredibly frustrating" that multiple warning signs in the days and hours leading up to the shooting were missed.

"Clearly something should have been done, and there was the opportunity to do something that could have prevented this horrific tragedy," he said.