Oxford shooting deaths include honor student, athletes and artist

One played high school football well enough to catch the eyes of college recruiters.

Another excelled in bowling and golf.

One girl played volleyball and basketball. Another loved art.

The four teens chased different passions but they will remain forever linked as those who died from gunshot wounds they suffered at Oxford High School on a Tuesday afternoon.

Tate Myre, 16, Madisyn Baldwin, 17, and Hana St. Juliana, 14, died within hours of the shooting. Justin Shilling, 17, survived an additional day, before dying in a local hospital.

Their names join a litany of others who have died in schools across the nation as part of a scourge of gun violence that began before the eldest of them was born.

Though four young people lost their lives, seven others — students Phoebe Arthur, John Asciutto, Riley Franz, Elijah Mueller, Kylie Ossege and Aiden Watson as well as teacher Molly Darnell — were also wounded in gunfire, according to authorities.

'Intent to kill': A visual timeline of deadly shooting at Oxford High School

Oxford tough

Tate Myre played running back, tight end and linebacker on Oxford's football team. He also wrestled. His player profile listed him at 6 feet, 195 pounds. He was an honor student with a 3.9 grade point average.

He was the youngest of three brothers. Tate's father, Buck, headed the football team parents' group, arranging dinners and assisting with fundraising.

"It's the All-American family," said JR Laefner, a family friend who serves as public address announcer at school football games. "If you're in trouble or if you need anything, they're there to help. They're there for the kids. They love school. They're just that high school family that's involved."

Three days before the shooting, he attended a football game at the University of Toledo. In a tweet the following day, he thanked the coaches for the invitation and included a photo of himself near the end zone. He wore his Oxford varsity jacket with a field pass draped around his neck.

In late October, Tate appeared in an online video, touting the team's toughness in coming back from a 0-3 start to make the playoffs where Oxford defeated rival Clarkston.

By late Wednesday, more than 70,000 people had signed an online petition to rename the school's football stadium in his honor.

Aspiring artist

Madisyn Baldwin was described by Oakland County Prosecutor Karen McDonald as "a talented artist and a big sister." Friends posted online tributes touting her abilities.

"This beautiful, smart, sweet loving girl was tragically taken from us all today leaving a huge hole in all of our hearts and" lives, her grandmother, Jennifer Graves Mosqueda, wrote in a public post on the online fundraising site GoFundMe.com.

The Free Press confirmed the account.

Pastor Liz Wilson from the Immanuel Congregational United Church of Christ in the Village of Oxford said she spoke to Baldwin's grandmother, a member of the congregation, on Tuesday night and has offered to provide support to the community in the wake of the shooting.

"I may have to do a funeral and that's the worst nightmare in the world," she said.

Wilson was an elementary schoolteacher in Oxford for 36 years before she became a pastor.

"Oxford has always had a feeling that they are apart from the rest of the world and nothing's going to happen," she said. "I always knew something was going to happen. It's just a sitting duck for something awful."

#OxfordStrong: Oxford High School booster club offers black-ribbon stickers, T-shirts

Wilson said her grandson, a sophomore at the high school, was in the building when the shooting occurred. She said her grandson's best friend "was almost coming apart" because he couldn't find her grandson. "They met in the parking lot and I have never seen a kid squeeze another kid that hard," she said.

'Most joyful kids'

In announcing charges against the suspect, McDonald said Wednesday she had spoken with the fathers of two of the teens who had died. And one of them, McDonald said, wanted people to know that his 14-year-old daughter, Hana St. Juliana, "was one of the happiest and most joyful kids."

Reached at his Brandon Township home, Steven St. Juliana said he was not up to speaking with the Free Press and referred a reporter to a friend in the neighborhood, Jennifer Curtis.

Curtis said Hana was "kind, gentle and generous, really one of the best kids we've ever known. She was a special kid, always willing to help."

She said she and her husband are both educators, and that Hana was a good student and "a joy to have in the classroom."

"She was a good kid who wanted to the right thing and be a good person," Curtis said.