SC man charged in Capitol riot took selfie and used a tracking application, FBI says

SC man charged in Capitol riot took selfie and used a tracking application, FBI says An FBI spokesperson has declined to say whether additional South Carolina residents are being investigated for potential charges in connection to the deadly riot at the Capitol on Jan. 6.

A South Carolina man is facing federal charges after authorities say he breached the U.S. Capitol and took a selfie in front of a John C. Calhoun statue during a deadly riot in Washington, D.C.

Andrew Hatley is the first South Carolinian known to be charged in connection to the riot of Jan. 6. Federal authorities contacted him by phone on Jan. 12, according to a federal complaint, and criminal charges were filed on Jan. 15.

The complaint charges Hatley with knowingly entering a restricted building without lawful authority, knowingly impeding government business, engaging in disorderly conduct on Capitol grounds, and demonstrating or picketing in the Capitol buildings.

He was identified through witnesses, photographs and a cellphone tracking application, according to the federal complaint.

The complaint does not specify where Hatley is from in South Carolina or his age.

An attorney was not listed for Hatley in online court records by Tuesday. A working phone number or email for Hatley was not located in public records.

The federal complaint states that Hatley drove from his residence in South Carolina to Washington, D.C., on Jan. 5 to attend protests of the presidential election.

A witness called the Federal Bureau of Investigation on the day of the Jan. 6 riot and said they had knowledge and photos of Hatley inside the Capitol, the complaint states.

The FBI's Columbia field office spokesperson, Agent Don Wood, said the local office did not have any "substantial involvement" in investigating Hatley.

Wood declined to comment on whether the office was pursuing any additional South Carolina residents for potential charges connected to the Capitol riot.

Five people died in the Jan. 6 riot, including a Capitol police officer. Many were injured, and more than 200 have since been charged in connection to the chaos, according to national media reports and the FBI.

The breach of the Capitol building temporarily halted the certification of electoral votes by Congress to formally ratify Joe Biden as the winner of the presidential election. Biden is to be inaugurated on Jan. 20.

Hatley had used an application on his cellphone while in the Capitol to track his location, according to the complaint. The FBI obtained Hatley's phone number and verified Hatley's whereabouts on Jan. 6 through the "Life360" location-tracking app.

A second witness gave several photographs to the FBI that the witness had obtained from Hatley, according to the complaint.

One of the photographs shows Hatley in a green respirator mask in front of a statue of John C. Calhoun, the politician from South Carolina who served as the nation's vice president under presidents John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson. The statue is inside the center section of the U.S. Capitol building known as the crypt, which was damaged during the riot, according to media reports.

The FBI also reviewed a Facebook page that showed Hatley denied any involvement in breaching the Capitol.

According to the complaint, the post read, "It has come to my attention that there was someone who looks like me at the Capitol. I'd like to set the record straight. I don't have that kind of motivation for lost causes. I just don't care enough anymore, certainly not enough for all that."

A Facebook page referenced in the federal complaint had been taken down by this week.

A screenshot of the Facebook page that's been circulating on social media shows Hatley as working for a trucking company in Newberry. A woman who answered the phone at the company Tuesday declined to comment.

When FBI agents contacted Hatley by phone on Jan. 12, Hatley said he was not sure how much he should say without legal counsel because "he could be in a great deal of trouble," according to the complaint.