Michigan State honors Oxford shooting victim Tate Myre on National Signing Day

Star football player Tate Myre had dreams of playing in college before he and three other students were killed in the Oxford High School shooting in Michigan last month.

Now, he's a Michigan State University signee.

MSU head football coach Mel Tucker announced Myre as an honorary member of the Spartans' recruiting class during the first day of the early signing period on Wednesday.

"We are honored to recognize Tate Myre as the first Spartan Dawg of the 2022 class," Tucker said in a video posted on Twitter. "Tate is and always will be a Spartan Dawg."

Myre played tight end, linebacker and running back for the Oxford Wildcats and was invited for a recruiting visit to Michigan State just days before the attack.

Tucker applauded Myre's "heroism" after witnesses said the 16-year-old ran toward the shooter in an attempt to stop him.

"A Spartan Dawg is defined not by the plays they make on the field but by the character they exemplify, the leadership they bring to their team and their community, and for extraordinary individuals like Tate Myre, their heroism," Tucker said.

National Signing Day 2021: What to watch for Wednesday as early college football signing period opens

Star wrestler, football player Tate Myre among Oxford High School shooting victims

"Tate Myre had an unmatched work ethic, athleticism and love for his teammates," Tucker added in the video. "He had a passion to one day play for Michigan State. This passion was paired with an unstoppable drive and follow through to get there. Tate's consistency on and off the football field elevated everyone who knew him."

Three days before the shooting, Myre attended a football game at the University of Toledo. He was invited to go on a recruiting visit to Michigan State for the Penn State game the same day, but in line with his character, "Tate Myre (kept) his word," said Ross Wingert, who coached Myre in football and wrestling.

Madisyn Baldwin, Hana St. Juliana and Justin Shilling also died in the Nov. 28 shooting.

"Our hearts go out to the families and loved ones of Hana St. Juliana, Justin Shilling, Madisyn Baldwin and Tate Myre," Tucker concluded his video message. "And we will continue to support the Oxford community any way that we can."

Michigan school shooting victims remembered: Honor student, athletes and an artist

This marks the latest tribute to Myre from the college and pro football community.

Michigan players wore a No. 42 patch during the Big Ten championship game on Dec. 4 and Myre's family and former coaches were named honorary captains at midfield before the game. Hutchinson had "Play for Tate" written on his forearm tape.

NFL players honored Myre with customized jerseys and warmup gear. Before the Detroit Lions and Minnesota Vikings played on Dec. 5, Lions safety Jalen Elliott walked into Ford Field wearing a No. 42 customized jersey with "Myre" on the back. Vikings quarterback Kirk Cousins wore an "Oxford Wildcats" shirt during warmups. Lions players and coach Dan Campbell also wore shirts.

The shooter, 15, has been charged with four counts of first-degree murder and terrorism causing death. His parents, James and Jennifer Crumbley, were charged with four counts of involuntary manslaughter.