Oxford High School survivor Phoebe Arthur goes home: 'She is a fighter'

Phoebe Arthur is out of the hospital.

"My sweet baby is HOME ❤️❤️❤️❤️ GOD IS GOOD," wrote her mother Sandy Cunningham on a verified GoFundMe page set up to help the 14-year-old Oxford High School gunshot victim.

"OUR COMMUNITY IS AMAZING ❤️ lots of love to you all!"

Phoebe had just been released from Hurley Medical Center in Flint. This means one child remained hospitalized in the Nov. 30 shooting that killed four students and injured seven other people, including a teacher.

A 17-year-old female student was in stable condition at St. Joseph Mercy Oakland Hospital, according to the Oakland County Sheriff's Office in a news release Sunday.

The GoFundMe page for Phoebe was set up by Naomi and Edward Ernest of Manchester Township. The dollars go to her parents.

On the home page, Naomi Ernest, Phoebe's cousin, wrote that the teen had been shot in the chest and neck.

"Thankfully, a friend kept Phoebe out of harm's way, holding her, praying with her, and putting compressions on Phoebe's wounds to stop the bleeding until paramedics could arrive. Phoebe sustained serious injuries that required immediate surgery, after which she was put on a ventilator until stable," Ernest wrote on GoFundMe.

"Through it all, her mom says Phoebe 'has been the strongest, bravest, most epic human. She is a fighter.' "

The fundraiser is intended to help cover expenses related to the trauma, both short-term and long term. All money goes directly to the family. By late Monday, the site had about 1,300 donations totaling $75,258 toward a $100,000 goal.

'Made it through'

Updates on the page have included photos and optimism.

"Phoebe had such a big day and made so many advances towards her recovery," Cunningham posted Friday. "She sat up, made it to a chair, walked, did laps around the ped(iatric) unit. She only had one awful pain breakdown today, those being the moments we don't share. Along with all the doctors, nurses, psychologist ... she made it through a big day."

Ernest thanked people for the messages of support.

"I feel you all should know that your prayers and rallying around Phoebe is truly making a difference, along with her strength and determination to get better. Peace and love to you all," she wrote.

The Free Press has reached out to Ernest to see if she would like to comment further.

Donations on the GoFundMe page ranged from $5 to $2,000. Some left messages on the site and others contributed anonymously. Donor comments came from all over the country and included:

"You are a true warrior," from Shannon Gammon.

"Keep fighting — and know you are supported," from Anita Banach from Romeo.

"Stay strong Phoebe!! Sending love & prayers to you & your community. Charleston, SC stands with you all!" from Ashley and Travis Parys.

"I don't know your family but my heart goes out to every victim of the Oxford shooting. I'm a college student and $5 is all I could do but I hope that you get your expenses covered and I can't wait to hear about updates on your recovery!" from Soraya Olds.