Hopkins teacher suspended for 'violent, detailed' comments about Oxford shooting

An Allegan County teacher is suspended from Hopkins High School while Michigan State Police investigated violent, and detailed comments that students said he made in class. Hopkins High School principal Ken Szczepanski said the comments referenced physical violence and weapons on the day after the deadly shootings at Oxford High School.

"The things that he said, how he would've committed the act differently with detail, is extremely scary," said a parent who did not reveal her identity in fear of retaliation.

The parent said her child heard the teacher make the comments in class on Wednesday.

"That he would've pulled a smoke detector, so that he could create a distraction, in order to carry out his hitlist and kill the people that he would need to," said the parent. "It was gut-wrenching devastation that a grown adult would mentally harm our children this way."

Szczepanski didn't go into detail about the teacher's comments, but he said the school was investigating comments concerning physical violence and weapons made in multiple classroom periods. He said a memo was sent to help teachers talk to their students about the Oxford shootings, but one teacher took it too far.

"They were insensitive, in regard to being the day after Oxford and they were off-script," said Szczepanski.

To make matters worse, the superintendent at Hopkins said the district "awoke to rumors" on Friday that an employee was going to "shoot up" the school.

"We would not have been in school today had we not felt that it was a safe environment for these students," said Szczepanski. "This is a contained situation."

In a letter to parents on Friday, the superintendent said those rumors stemmed from an inappropriate classroom conversation.

On Friday, one parent said Hopkins Schools should fire the teacher who led that conversation.

"Zero tolerance, zero tolerance, absolutely not should he be back in school or teaching anywhere, ever," said the parent.

The teacher is on leave until the police investigation is complete.