How can schools detect potentially violent students? Researchers have an answer.

A Virginia public school student suggested he might carry out an ethnic cleansing at his school. Officials were alarmed, but they weren't sure whether he was serious. They convened a team to assess the threat and notified the police, who found an unsecured loaded semiautomatic pistol in a search of his home.

An investigation revealed online messages with a friend in another state considering a similar act — acts that police then thwarted, according to Dewey Cornell, a scholar who keeps track of these incidents but does not give out time or location information to protect the confidentiality of the districts and students.

One of the stickiest dilemmas that counselors and teachers face is how to know which students are poised to commit a horrid act of violence and which ones just need help, even urgently. Every day, they walk a terrifying tightrope: Removing every student who shows disturbing behaviors would amount to a huge overreaction. Missing just one true killer could be a tragic underreaction.

"It boils down to a judgment call," said Melissa Reeves, former president of the National Association of School Psychologists. "We don't have a cookbook that says if this situation happens, do this."

Increasingly, school officials rely on sophisticated threat detection systems designed to head off horrific mass shootings like the one last week in Oxford, Mich. When officials encounter concerns, they might look at social media posts, search a student's locker or desk and examine academic and disciplinary records. Officials might investigate the student's access to weapons, recent stressful events in the student's life, evidence of depression or suicidal thoughts, evidence of planning an attack and consistency of a student's statements and actions.

In Oxford, 15-year-old Ethan Crumbley came to the attention of guidance counselors, who sent him back to class. Later that day, he is alleged to have opened fire, killing four students and injuring seven others.

Many academics, school officials and law enforcement agencies suggest decisions like this be made by a much larger, multidisciplinary team including administrators, school-based police officers and mental health professionals such as school counselors, psychologists and social workers.

"It doesn't rest on one person's shoulders, or one or two," said Michele Gay, whose 7-year-old daughter Josephine was killed in the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012. Gay now runs a nonprofit organization that brings threat assessment training to U.S. schools. "We know that it works, we know it saves lives."

The U.S. Secret Service has long wrestled with this problem as it has sought to evaluate people who might attack the president or other protected officials. In 1999, after a mass shooting at Columbine High School outside Denver left 13 people dead, the agency realized its methods could be used to evaluate threats in schools, too, and began sharing its tools with educators. By 2018, the Secret Service's National Threat Assessment Center had published a 32-page guide that recommended multidisciplinary threat assessment teams, with a set of criteria for intervention. The FBI also sees threat assessment as a valuable tool in trying to prevent mass school shootings.

"You can't catch someone falling from a building if you're the only one holding the net," said Katherine Schweit, a former FBI special agent and author of the book, "Stop the Killing: How to End the Mass Shooting Crisis."

Mass shootings in the U.S. are overwhelmingly committed by men. Experts are examining the place of masculinity in the gun debate. (Video: Nicki DeMarco, Erin Patrick O'Connor, Sarah Hashemi/The Washington Post)

After the 2007 mass shooting at Virginia Tech, in which 32 people were killed, Virginia became the first state to mandate threat assessment teams, taking the approach recommended by the Secret Service. The requirement was imposed first on universities and, in 2013, on K-12 schools. Now at least 11 states require schools to put these teams in place. One study found that by 2017, about half of American secondary schools and more than 40 percent of primary schools used threat assessment teams.