Prosecutor says she received 'pushback' after charging parents over Michigan shooting

Oakland County prosecutor Karen McDonald says she has received "pushback" from within her own office over the decision to charge the parents of the accused Oxford High School shooter, but she feels the rare move is still the right thing to do.

James and Jennifer Crumbley were charged with involuntary manslaughter after their 15-year-old son Ethan was accused of the Nov. 30 shooting that left four students dead and six others and a teacher injured.

McDonald, who is the elected official in charge of the criminal case, told NPR's Mary Louise Kelly she approached it as both a prosecutor and a mother.

"I absolutely acknowledge that it hasn't been done before, though I didn't know that at the time, and ... it wouldn't have altered my decision," she said.

"I did receive pushback, but prosecutors don't like to do things for the first time, and they also don't like to do things that might result in a 'not guilty'.

"But I wasn't elected to do the same thing, and this is just far beyond politics. To me, this was the right thing to do.

"I don't think anyone looking at it, particularly what we know now — only some of which is public — could have decided to just allow those two individuals to move forward in their life and never have any consequences."

The Crumbleys have pleaded not guilty to four counts of involuntary manslaughter. Ethan Crumbley has been charged with terrorism and murder and has also pleaded not guilty.

McDonald said the investigation into the shooting had uncovered a number of details that she felt made the charges of involuntary manslaughter necessary.

She said Jennifer Crumbley "proudly" posted on social media just four days before the shooting that she had purchased a gun for her son as an early Christmas present.

She said both parents were also called to the school on the morning of the shooting to talk about "troubling writing" their son had been found with.

"Pictures of guns, pictures of someone being shot, words like 'blood everywhere'," McDonald said.

"They were asked to take their son home, and they resisted. Both of them left, never told the school that he had full access to a weapon, which he clearly did.