Reading schools closed Thursday due to threat, student arrested

READING, Ohio (WXIX) - Another Tri-State school district is dealing with a potential threat of violence.

Reading schools are closed Thursday as a precaution, and a 13 year old student is under arrest.

Police are investigating a school shooting threat, according to District Superintendent Jason Enix.

Enix notified parents and guardians of the closure in a message sent around 9:15 p.m.

Reading police said in a message they were able to identify the student who they say made the threats.

The student was taken to the Hamilton County Juvenile Court Youth Center in Mt. Auburn and appeared for an arraignment Thursday morning.

The defense argued that the high school student has no prior contact with the system, is part of the National Honor Society, and has family and a support system who want him home.

The prosecution asked that he be held until the next court hearing.

They stated he threatened staff and a particular student in his threats.

The student will remain in custody until his next hearing on Monday, Dec. 20.

He was charged with inducing panic.

The Reading Police Department said earlier in the evening it was aware of a Snapchat message circulating among Reading school students.

The department's Facebook post contains an image of the message that reads:

"Everyone going to Reading school tomorrow, please I beg you don't go to school tomorrow, there is a risk that one of the students will shoot up the school tomorrow just take precaution and DO NOT GO this is important."

The department said it had identified and interviewed the student who made the threats.

Around an hour later, around 10:45 p.m., Reading police issued a statement saying the juvenile student had been arrested and was transported to the juvenile detention center.

The statement called the juvenile's threat "credible."

Enix sent the following statement to parents and guardians prior to his 9:15 p.m. message:

"RCCSD administration became aware of a potential threat to our school community via a social media post earlier this evening. Currently, we are working collaboratively with Officer Magly and the Reading Police Department to communicate information and this situation is being thoroughly investigated.

"We are greatly appreciative of the notifications received from our students, families, and others to make us aware of this situation and encourage anyone that has any additional information to contact school and/or district officials. The safety and security of our students and staff is our top priority and we are working diligently to address this situation. As soon as we receive any new information, further updates will be provided."

Reading Schools superintendent says classes will resume on Friday with extra police presence at the schools.

The threat at Reading schools follows several threats made against Tri-State school districts in the aftermath of the Oxford, Michigan school shooting that left four dead.

The Fairfield City School District increased patrols at all schools Wednesday through the rest of the week due to a threat.

A student was arrested at Milford Junior High last week allegedly for making a so-called "kill list" of fellow classmates.

Overall, five youths from different school districts have been charged in Hamilton County since Michigan shooting, according to Judge Melissa Powers.