Campus safety in focus following shooting at Michigan High School

Campus safety is a top concern for parents, teachers, school administrators and law enforcement.

Just this week, a student was taken into custody in connection with an apparent threat on social media targeting an unnamed school in Orange County, according to Buena Park Police.

And last week's deadly shooting at Oxford High School in Michigan has sparked discussions about safety protocols on campuses.

A 15-year-old sophomore is facing terrorism and murder charges in the Nov. 30 shooting that left four students dead and injured six more students and a teacher at the campus 30 miles outside Detroit. The student's parents have been charged with involuntary manslaughter.

A timeline of events released by district officials shows what happened preceding the tragedy.

The day before the shooting, a teacher reported seeing the student now charged in the shooting looking at bullets on his phone in class, according to a statement from Oxford Community Schools Superintendent Tim Throne. The student told a counselor and staff member that "shooting sports are a family hobby."

In the morning before the shooting, the student was again sent to school counselors and his parents were called to campus after a teacher was alarmed by some of the student's drawings including one of a handgun with the words: "The thoughts won't stop. Help me," reports the Associated Press. The student said the drawings were related to a video game he was designing.

"While both of his parents were present, counselors asked specific probing questions regarding the potential for self-harm or harm to others. His answers, which were affirmed by his parents during the interview, led counselors to again conclude he did not intend on committing either self-harm or harm to others," according to Throne.

The counselors said the parents must get their child counseling within 48 hours. The parents refused to take their son home from school and apparently went to work, Throne wrote. "Given the fact that the child had no prior disciplinary infractions, the decision was made he would be returned to the classroom rather than sent home to an empty house." Counselors did not notify the principal or the assistant principal of the incidents, Throne's statement says.

A few hours later, the shooting occurred during a passing period as hundreds of students transitioned between classes. Throne said actions taken then by students and staff saved lives and prevented the shooter from entering any classrooms. "Before the shooter was able to walk a short distance to enter the main hallway, students and staff had already entered classrooms, locked doors, erected makeshift barricades and locked down or fled according to their training."

The school district is launching its own investigation by a third party. "?It's critically important to the victims, our staff and our entire community that a full and transparent accounting be made," Throne wrote.

Local reaction

At the December meeting of the McGaugh Elementary School PTA, multiple parents brought up the shooting in Michigan with questions about safety protocols at their campus.

McGaugh Principal Dr. Issaic Gates told attendees at the online meeting that the safety of students and staff "is the top priority on my mind every day." He said he would outline the school's safety protocols at a meeting being planned with the Seal Beach Police Department.