Tucson police to fire officer who fatally shot a man in a wheelchair 9 times from behind

TUCSON, Ariz. — Police said Tuesday a Tucson officer would be fired after video showed him fatally shoot a man in a motorized wheelchair while confronting him over allegedly shoplifting.

Surveillance video of the Monday shooting shows Richard Lee Richards, 61, entering a Lowe's in a wheelchair before an officer, later identified as Ryan Remington, fires his gun nine times at Richards' back and side. Richards was pronounced dead shortly afterward.

Before Richards entered the Lowe's, a Walmart employee had reported Richards was suspected of shoplifting a toolbox, Tucson police chief Chris Magnus said Tuesday at a news conference. When asked to show a receipt, the Walmart employee told police that Richards pulled out a knife and said, "Here's your receipt."

Remington was working off-duty as security at Walmart and has been with the department for four years. Magnus said Tuesday that Remington would be fired.

Here's what we know.

After Richards left the Walmart store, Remington followed him around the parking lot and can be seen on video calling for backup.

Officer Stephanie Taylor responded, arriving at the scene as Remington was approaching Richards near the Lowe's entrance. Footage from her body-worn camera shows her run out of her vehicle toward Richards.

"You need to stop," someone is heard saying, and then, "He's got his knife in his other hand."

As Remington says, "Do not go to the store, sir," Taylor draws her gun, too.

Video captured by Lowe's security cameras show Richards enter the store in a wheelchair followed by the two officers with their guns drawn a few feet behind him.

"Stop now. You need to —" Taylor starts saying but is interrupted by Remington firing his gun, according to the body camera video.

Richards was facing away from the officers when Remington fired his gun nine times at Richards' back and side, body camera footage shows. Richards immediately fell out of his chair as Remington rushed toward him and handcuffed the man, who remained crumpled on the ground.

What we know about officer Ryan Remington

Officer Ryan Remington has been with the Tucson police department for four years. His attorney, Mike Storie,said in a statement that Remington "had no nonlethal options."