Brandon Lee's Family Supports Banning Real Guns From Sets Following 'Rust' Fatal Shooting

The family of Brandon Lee has been overcome with sadness and frustration after learning that another fatal accidental shooting occurred on a film set.

On Thursday, cinematographer Halyna Hutchins, 42, was killed when a gun handled by Alec Baldwin misfired on the set of his Western film, Rust. Director Joel Souza was also wounded. The incident remains under investigation.

Brandon Lee's sister, Shannon, told The Hollywood Reporter on Friday that her heart was broken for all involved in the Rust tragedy and that her family was once again processing their own pain.

"I have been in contact with my mom and with my brother's fiancee," Shannon Lee told THR upon hearing the news. "A lot of people have been reaching out. It's stirring up a lot of emotions — and frustration."

In March 1993, Brandon Lee, son of martial arts legend Bruce Lee, was fatally wounded by a prop gun while filming The Crow. He was 28.

Acknowledging that details are unclear over what went wrong on Rust, Lee said there is no excuse for another deadly shooting accident.

"There are rules that are supposed to be followed," she said. "I am certainly not pointing fingers at anyone because that would be the wrong thing to do. But there is no reason for something like this to happen. My heart goes out to Alec Baldwin. I feel for the work he is going to have to do to process this and try to find some measure of peace around it. And even more so for the family of Halyna Hutchins. It's having your whole world flip upside down. There should be compassion for all the pain everyone is going through."

Baldwin on Friday said he was filled with "shock and sadness" over the incident. He noted he was working with authorities to determine what went wrong.

Following the Thursday shooting, a number of those involved in the industry, both in front and behind the camera, said on social media that real guns need to be banned from Hollywood sets. Lee agrees.