I work with firearms on movie sets. There are multiple steps in place to avoid accidents.

I work with firearms on movie sets. There are multiple steps in place to avoid accidents. There are so many levels of gun safety measures on movie sets. That's what makes the fatal shooting on 'Rust' so incredibly rare and even more tragic.

I woke up sobbing after what happened on a film set in Santa Fe, New Mexico, where a horrible accident took place that killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injured director Joel Souza on the set of "Rust," starring Alec Baldwin.

This is a nightmare. I am praying for all involved. We are a small group of professionals, and this is like hearing a family member was involved in the worst accident imaginable, albeit perhaps only imaginable to those "pretending" to fire guns for a living.

Wrongful death lawsuit: Alec Baldwin sued by Halyna Hutchins' family after fatal shooting on 'Rust' movie set

I facilitate the use of firearms in the film industry as an armorer. My specialty has been working on the set of Westerns. I have been asked to share some facts about our profession to filter any speculation about the tragedy that has occurred.

Preparing to use firearms on set

Most firearms shown up close or fired on film are real, which requires paperwork, permits, lockboxes, safes and monitoring, among other things.

Western movies are unique in that they generally use a type of handgun called a revolver. The revolvers require no modifications to operate with blank cartridges. A live round with the projectile or a blank round with no projectile will both fit. These guns are generally rented by the prop master or armorer from a rental house in the business.

The revolvers on Westerns are manually cocked with a hammer by your thumb to turn a cylinder holding the cartridges. Every pull of that hammer indexes one round in line with the barrel and the hammer stays back. By pulling the trigger the hammer drops. It has a firing pin on it that penetrates a hole in the rear of the frame of the gun.

Campbell: Part of the family: Why domestic violence victims won't leave unless their pets are safe

It pokes past the frame – striking the rear of a brass cartridge loaded in one of the cylinder's chambers, hitting a small circular object on the back of that cartridge. This primer sparks inside when struck. That spark sets fire to gunpowder.

If this was a live round it would have a lead bullet pressed into the front of the brass cartridge. The pressure of the exploding gun powder forces the lead tip out of the barrel.