'Inexperienced' Armorer on Baldwin Set Raised Alarm Bells on Prior Film

There were previous concerns raised about the 24-year-old armorer who was hired on Alec Baldwin's film Rust, with two production sources telling The Daily Beast that filming on the set of her last movie was briefly stopped after she allegedly gave a gun to an 11-year-old actress without checking it properly.

"She was a bit careless with the guns, waving it around every now and again," said a source, who worked alongside armorer Hannah Gutierrez-Reed on the upcoming Nicolas Cage film, The Old Way. "There were a couple times she was loading the blanks and doing it in a fashion that we thought was unsafe."

Gutierrez-Reed was identified in a Santa Fe Sheriff's Office search warrant affidavit as the armorer on set when Baldwin was given a prop gun he believed was safe. Baldwin discharged the gun, fatally striking 42-year-old cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injuring 48-year-old director Joel Souza. No charges have been brought but the sheriff's office's investigation is ongoing.

Sources on the Rust set have insisted the fatal accident was a result of failings from top to bottom, starting with the production's low-budget and cost-cutting measures.

Gutierrez-Reed was described as being "inexperienced and green" by a Rust production source, who told The Daily Beast there were at least two previous incidents of guns being accidentally discharged by other crew members before Thursday's tragic incident.

According to the Actors' Equity Association's guidelines, guns should be test-fired off stage before each use. "All loading of firearms must be done by the property master, armorer or experienced persons working under their direct supervision," the association advises.

Two Rust production sources, who have both worked in the industry for decades, claim that assistant director Dave Halls, who is named in the search warrant affidavit as the person who handed the gun to Baldwin and said it was safe, should have also checked the weapons.

"He's supposed to be our last line of defense and he failed us," the first source said. "He's the last person that's supposed to look at that firearm."

According to the affidavit, Gutierrez-Reed had placed three prop guns on a cart outside where the scene was being filmed, before Halls grabbed a revolver from the cart and gave it to Baldwin. Halls called out "cold gun!" on set, according to the affidavit.

The second production source told The Daily Beast that the first assistant director should be personally verifying whether a weapon is "hot" or "cold." (A "cold gun" indicates there are no cartridges—including blanks—inside the firearm. A "hot gun" indicates the weapon is loaded with cartridges, either live ammunition or blank rounds.) "This check alone should've prevented this incident," the person said.

In a heartbreaking 911 call, script supervisor Mamie Mitchell also seemed to reference Halls as she urgently asked a dispatcher to send an ambulance to the set at Bonanza Creek Ranch, on the outskirts of Santa Fe.