Why wasn't anyone criminally charged in Brandon Lee's death? Those involved look back

One reason for the shock, horror and 24/7 media coverage of the Oct. 21 accidental shooting death on the set of "Rust" in New Mexico is that such on-set tragedies are rare: The last one was nearly 30 years ago, and the one before that was in 1984.

Yet some of the details in the 1993 shooting death of actor Brandon Lee on the set of "The Crow" in Wilmington, N.C., echo across the decades to Santa Fe, N.M., where "Rust" cinematographer Halyna Hutchins was killed and director Joel Souza was wounded by a gun fired by star and co-producer Alec Baldwin.

The guns in both cases were real and functional, but different makes. In both cases, the guns fired lead projectiles, unbeknownst to the actors and crew. In both cases, the guns were not properly checked before their use.

Rising star Lee, the son of actor Bruce Lee, was 28 at the time and about to get married. At 42, Hutchins, the mother of a young son, was an up-and-coming star in her field of cinematography.

"So unnecessary," lamented the former district attorney in Wilmington Jerry Spivey, who supervised the investigation of the Lee case.

And so infrequent, say others involved in the case.

"In the course of those nearly 30 years, there have been thousands of movies involving gun play of one sort of another, and hundreds of thousands of shots fired, so really this is a very, very rare event," says James Janowitz, the New York lawyer who led the defense of the producers of "The Crow" in a subsequent civil lawsuit.

One difference between then and now: Baldwin is a bigger, more controversial star than the actor who fired the weapon that killed Lee, Michael Massee, then 41, a veteran character actor who died of stomach cancer at age 64 in 2016.

The gun Masse fired in a scene was supposed to contain blanks but unbeknownst to anyone, the gun's barrel contained a fragment of a lead bullet left over from an earlier scene.

'Rust' shooting investigation: Halyna Hutchins' husband hires wrongful death attorney

Massee was devastated by the tragedy, he said in a 2005 interview with "Extra." He took a year off from acting and never saw "The Crow," which resumed production after Lee's death and was released in May 1994 to good reviews and nearly $95 million at the global box office.

"I don't think you ever get over something like that," Massee said.

After 1993, it wasn't supposed to happen again, says Spivey, in an interview with USA TODAY. After the investigation, he decided not to file criminal charges in the case.

"The hope was no person would ever again be killed on a movie set by a gun thought to be safe," he said. "That's been the case until now. You have to go back to the hard and fast rule of no live ammunition on any movie set. Ever."

As Santa Fe County Sheriff Adan Mendoza pointed out at a press conference Wednesday, Hollywood has had "a record recently of being safe."

But the "Rust" set has been dogged by reports of a partial crew walkout over workplace complaints and safety issues, just hours before the accidental shooting.