'Rust' EPs Disavow Responsibility For Troubled Alec Baldwin Movie: "No Involvement With The Physical And Day-To-Day Production"

A deeper look reveals a loose assemblage of producers and financiers who oversaw a troubled production that allegedly cut a number of corners.

It's often said that success in Hollywood has many fathers but failure is an orphan. Well, already, two of the Rust EPs are wiping their hands clean of the situation.

Speaking on behalf of the now shuttered production, Allen Cheney made it known in a statement provided to the press Wednesday that he, along with Emily Salveson and her Streamline Global finance company, "received Executive Producer credit on the film Rust having no involvement with the physical and day to day production," which is "consistent with financing partners across productions of all sizes."

(L-R) DP Halyna Hutchins on left who was died on set of 'Rust', director/writer Joel Souza who was injured and star/producer Alec Baldwin ICFC; Mega

Cheney further defended the experience of the producers of the production, which saw Baldwin on October 21 discharge a long Colt .45 revolver during a "quick draw" rehearsal, with a "live round" striking Hutchins and director Joel Souza, according to police. Baldwin, who also serves as a producer on Rust, was informed by First Assistant Director Dave Halls that he had been given what's known as a "cold gun." That was not the case, as the death of Hutchins and injuring of the film's director Joel Souza in the shoulder that afternoon tragically revealed.

"The six credited producers on the independent film Rust, Ryan Smith, Alec Baldwin, Nathan Klingher, Ryan Winterstern, Matt DelPiano and Anjul Nigam, collectively have more than 35 years' experience producing small to mid-level film and television projects," said Cheney's statement.

"Rust is a union-certified production, in good standing with all of the major production unions and guilds, including IATSE, the Teamsters, SAG, and DGA," said Cheney. IATSE has ripped Rust for hiring non-union crew when the camera team walked out.

A rusted chain hangs on the fence at the entrance to the Bonanza Creek Ranch film set in Santa Fe, N.M., AP

In the aftermath of the killing of Hutchins, many have tried to sort out who is financially responsible for the oversee of a production that allegedly cut a number of corners.

Here's what we've parsed out so far.

First and foremost, Bondit Media Capital did not have any equity stake in Rust, despite being named a co-financier. We've learned that the production finance lender, whose feature credits include the upcoming Bruce Willis-John Travolta re-team Paradise City, loaned money to production against distribution collateral. Bondit did not respond for comment on this story.

Rust was not bonded. Two of the three U.S. completion bond firms were approached about bonding the project, according to sources, but it didn't happen. In one of the two cases, a potential financier made inquiries with one and stepped back from the film when the company declined to issue a bond.

Bondit generally does not require completion bonds to lend and has been active in getting productions up and running during Covid.

Bonds are like super-insurance, with the bond company on the hook for costs if a film isn't delivered in time and on budget. Productions also have traditional insurance, in Rust's case said to be from Chubb, which declined to comment.