US Capitol riot: How CNN obtained the dramatic videos of the January 6 attack

CNN — Words can only describe so much from the nearly 500 criminal cases against rioters who overtook the US Capitol on January 6.

Hours of media and live-streamed participant video have been available since that day, capturing crowds mounting scaffolding built for Inauguration Day, Trump supporters gleefully running through the building's hallways and the Senate chamber, and even the death of one participant shot by a police officer through a doorframe. But much of the most significant video capturing the most severe violent crimes from that day still can't be seen.

That's because the Justice Department and the federal courts haven't proactively made available footage from surveillance cameras around the Capitol and from DC Metropolitan police officers' body cameras.

Last week, the public finally began to see some of that video, because a group of 16 major media outlets led by CNN sued for access. The video releases – just a few in the media coalitions' continued pursuit of dozens – come as some Republicans, inspired by former President Donald Trump's election lies, are denying what happened on January 6, despite injured law enforcement officers like DC Police's Michael Fanone pushing for officials to acknowledge the Trump supporters' unlawful brutality that day.

The effort to get footage released has taken months. In some cases, the videos became evidence in public portions of Capitol riot defendants' cases weeks ago. But it hasn't even been seen by reporters covering the court proceedings because of the peculiarities of video technology, the unprecedented sweep of the insurrection investigation and structural approaches in the federal court system.

Rolling the tapes in court

CNN's work to view video used in court began in March. Two months after the insurrection, federal defendants were appearing in court each day by the dozen. As defendants came through DC District Court following their arrests in their home states, judges held waves of hearings about whether to detain each of them. At those hearings, prosecutors needed to prove the alleged dangerousness of each defendant, showing how violent some were on January 6, especially toward police. The best way to do it, in many cases: Roll the January 6 tapes.

The tapes showed from police officers' perspectives and unflinching surveillance cameras the violence of the pro-Trump crowd – law enforcement colleagues beaten and dragged and crushed in doorframes; police lines collapsing, completely overwhelmed.

Typically the court press corps sits in the courthouse to watch hearings where these moments are laid out in excruciating detail. But because of coronavirus restrictions, we could only listen to DC federal court proceedings over the phone. The judges, lawyers and defendants, however, recreated their courtrooms over Zoom videoconferences.

Another technological hitch kept these videos out of sight: While most evidence used in early federal criminal proceedings gets posted on an online public docket, called Pacer, that system can't house videos.

As these limitations became more apparent every day, CNN and other news outlets started pushing for access. Thousands of hours of video became core to the Justice Department's prosecution of the siege – an overwhelming trove of evidence that would be rolled out gradually to prove scene by scene the behavior of hundreds of rioters.

In one case, against riot defendant Emanuel Jackson, NBC wrote to his judge and received limited access to a video from the case. In another, Judge Royce Lamberth ordered the court to post videos on its website from the case against the so-called "Q Anon Shaman" Jacob Chansley, who had become famous for posing with a horned headdress and a spear-tipped flagpole at the vice president's desk in the Senate.

Then the Justice Department arrested two pro-Trump ralliers for spraying Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, who later died, and two other officers with mace-like chemicals along the police line at the front of the Capitol building. It was a significant break in a major January 6 assault case.

The West Virginia court where one defendant, George Tanios, first appeared allowed reporters to view his detention hearing as a livestream video. Prosecutors played videos of the Sicknick attack one after another, showing how each officer physically reacted to the assault. The judge in West Virginia, Michael Aloi, called the video of Sicknick "surreal" and noted how he was impacted by the severity of the chemical spray hitting the officers' faces.