Former Ghost Town gunslinger, who was once injured by prop gun, talks movie set safety

As the investigation continues into a shooting death involving a prop gun on the set of the movie "Rust," a local man recalled a similar scenario that played out in Western North Carolina more than eight years ago.

Robert Bradley, a western gunfight actor, was shot and injured at a Maggie Valley amusement park. He is now an armorer for the movies and has a unique perspective on the "Rust" shooting.

Bradley said he was shot in the leg when a slug came out of a shotgun during a staged western show when Ghost Town briefly reopened in the summer of 2013.

Bradley, who worked those shows for five decades, said there had been no gun mishaps until his.

"It was a round slug. I got an X-ray of it. It's still in my leg," Bradley said.

According to doctors, the slug was too close to his femoral artery to remove, Bradley said.

"And said one more fraction and you would never got up off the ground," he said.

Bradley said the incident was called an accident but a thorough investigation never took place.

That event gives Bradley a novel perspective on the "Rust" shooting.

"When I was at Ghost Town, I did not allow any live ammunition anywhere on that mountain, and, if we caught anybody with it, they were fired," Bradley said.

Bradley is now an armorer for movies, currently on a set in Iowa for the film "Silent Night in Algona."

"There should never have been any guns, live ammunition anywhere around the set," he said.

Much of the investigation into the "Rust" tragedy is focusing on the actions of a rookie armorer and the assistant director.

"If anybody faced charges, it would be the one who reached over and got the gun and handed it to Alec (Baldwin) and said it's not loaded," Bradley said.

While Baldwin would not have known the gun was loaded, Bradley said he should never have pointed it at anyone.

"I cannot understand how it happened, and it shouldn't have happened," Bradley said.

Bradley said he'll be watching very carefully to see what kind of safety changes may come on movie sets in wake of the "Rust" case.