'Rust' Armorer's 'Mentor' Supplied Gun That Alec Baldwin Used in Death of Cinematographer: Report

Rust armorer Hannah Gutierrez-Reed was reportedly mentored by a gun expert listed as part of the crew of the fatal movie.

Producers for the film hired Seth Kenney, who owns a licensed weapon and prop rental company in Lake Havasu City, Arizona, as an "armorer mentor" for Gutierrez-Reed, according to a new report by the Los Angeles Times.

Jason Bowles, an attorney for Guttierez-Reed, told PEOPLE Kenney was hired as an armorer mentor and that Kenney supplied the firearms and "most of the ammunition" for the set.

Kenney did not immediately respond to PEOPLE's request for comment. A spokesperson for the production did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

According to the Times, Kenney recommended Gutierrez-Reed, 24, for the job of armorer on the set of the Alec Baldwin film, according to one source the newspaper did not identify. He also reportedly supplied the guns used in the movie, including a Colt .45 that Baldwin used on Oct. 21 when he accidentally shot and killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins. The Times report says that information came from "six people familiar with the matter," whom the newspaper did not identify.

Kenney has advised about weapons use before: he is listed as a "weapons consultant" on the 2015 Shia LaBeouf film Man Down on IMDb.

Sante Fe County Sheriff's spokesperson Juan Ríos said he could not confirm the Times's reporting.

Last week, Gutierrez-Reed said through Bowles in a statement shared with PEOPLE that she did not think live bullets would end up on the Rust set "in a million years," and she did not know how they got there.

"Hannah Gutierrez-Reed would like to add a few points to the continuing narrative on the tragic events surrounding the shooting on the Rust set," Bowles stated. "First, Hannah was incredibly safety conscious and took her job very seriously from the moment she started on Oct. 4."

He added, "She did firearms training for the actors as well as Mr. Baldwin, she fought for more training days and she regularly emphasized to never point a firearm at a person. Never in a million years did Hannah think that live rounds could have been in the 'dummy' Round box. Who put those in there and why is the central question."