Dolph Lundgren expresses shock over Alec Baldwin's 'Rust' shooting: 'It's crazy'

Action hero Dolph Lundgren knows a thing or two about filming violent movie scenes.

The " Rocky IV " actor, 64, is as fearless as they come, but even he was stunned to learn about the fatal shooting that occurred on the set of Alec Baldwin's "Rust" last month, killing cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injuring director Joel Souza.

"It's a serious business having real firearms on a film set. Usually an armorer, they're very serious people and they're very committed and the guns are checked," Lundgren said.

Lundgren pointed out that "it's been 35 years" since he attempted to wrap his mind around a similar tragedy. His former co-star, Brandon Lee, the son of martial arts legend Bruce Lee, was killed by a prop gun while filming "The Crow" in 1993.

"Any other time I remember it happened was with Brandon Lee," Lundgren, a former karate champion, recalled.

HILARIA BALDWIN'S INSTAGRAM POSTS RAISE EYEBROWS AS INVESTIGATION INTO 'RUST' SHOOTING CONTINUES

"It's crazy," Lundgren continued of the "Rust" tragedy. "I don't know how that happened. There should never be any live ammo around a movie set."

Lundgren is no stranger to making a gruesome fight or shootout scene appear real. In fact, he once punched his "Rocky IV" co-star Sylvester Stallone so hard it landed him in the hospital for days, close to death. Still, if his successful career as taught him anything thus far, it's that there are several protocols taken to ensure gun safety is a top priority.

"I used to do a couple dry fires into the ground before I use it. There is a protocol that is pretty strict and I'm sure safety on sets is going to be even more [strict] now," the action icon added.

The Swedish actor is gearing up for the upcoming release of "Castle Falls," which he stars in and directed. While scenes from the action-packed film are sure to make viewers' hearts race, Lundgren said he opted to use special effects for scenes involving guns.

DOLPH LUNDGREN STEPS OUT WITH 24-YEAR-OLD FIANCEE EMMA KROKDAL IN THE UK

"You can do CGI flashes and you can also animate the shells coming out of the weapon. All the multi flashes and all the shells kicked out of the guns, that's done on a computer," he said. "But some movies, I think the one [Alec] Baldwin was in was a period piece so they used revolvers or something like that. That's probably why they opted for using blanks."

Baldwin was handed a Colt revolver by assistant director Dave Halls while rehearsing a scene for the indie-western. He fired the gun, which was somehow loaded with a live round that discharged, killing Hutchins.

A day after the shooting, Baldwin publicly vowed to aid in any way he can in the Santa Fe Police Department investigation into the matter that left a grieving husband and father along with a 9-year-old son in bereavement. He also had an emotional meeting with Hutchins' family in the hours after the shooting.