'Rust': Released Affidavit Reveals More Details About Fatal Shooting Accident – Read It

Alec Baldwin "had been very careful" about the handling of guns used on the New Mexico set of Rust in the days and hours before he accidentally shot and killed cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and wounded director Joel Souza last week, according to the cameraman who was standing next to them when they were shot.

The cameraman, Reid Russell, "was asked about Alec and the firearm and how he handled the firearm," Santa Fe Sheriff's Department Detective Joel Cano wrote in his affidavit for a search warrant of the property. "He said Alec had been very careful, and brought up an instance when a scene was being filmed earlier. Reid said Alec had made sure it was safe and that a child wasn't near him when they were discharging a firearm during that scene."

Read the full affidavit, submitted Friday and now made public, below.

The detective's affidavit also notes that the film's assistant director, Dave Halls, "did not know live rounds were in the prop gun when he had given to the prop gun to the Actor Alec Baldwin." Cano used the word "rounds" – plural – but it remains unclear from the affidavit whether there were any unfired rounds remaining in the gun.

Cano wrote that "During the filming of the movie, the Assistant Director (Dave Halls) grabbed one of three 'prop-guns' that was set-up by the Armorer (Hannah Gutierrez), which was on a cart. The cart is a gray in color rolling table with two layers and was left outside of the structure due to Covid-19 restrictions."

The detective also noted that he "learned one of the prop-guns was then grabbed by the assistant director (Dave Halls) and he took it to the actor identified as Alec Baldwin who was inside of the structure. As the assistant director (Dave Halls) handed the gun to the actor Alec Baldwin, (Dave Halls) yelled, 'Cold Gun,' indicating the prop-gun did not have any live rounds."

In his affidavit, Cano wrote that Souza "explained that prior to the discharge of the firearm by actor Alec Baldwin, they had been working on preparing for the scene before lunch. Joel said they broke for lunch around 12:30 p.m. and had to be shuttled to an area away from the set to have breakfast, lunch and dinner. Joel (Souza) advised they returned back to the set after lunch, although he is not sure if the firearm was checked again. Joel stated they had Alec sitting in a pew in a church building setting, and he was practicing a cross draw. Joel said he was looking over the shoulder of Halyna, when he heard what sounded like a whip and then loud pop." Her first name was misspelled as Hayalana throughout the document.

Russell (whose name was spelled "Russel" in the affidavit) "said after the firearm was discharged, he remembered Joel having blood on his person, and Halyna speaking and saying she couldn't feel her legs. Reid stated once Halyna was on the ground, medics began to treat her injury as she was bleeding while on the floor of the building they were in."