I'm a prop master, and I see red flags everywhere in the 'Rust' fatal shooting (opinion)

CNN — As a union prop master, I have spent a lot of time thinking about last week's tragedy on the set of the movie Rust. A cinematographer, Halyna Hutchins, was shot dead, and a director, Joel Souza, was injured due to – by many accounts, including those detailed in an affidavit filed by a detective from the Santa Fe County Sheriff's Office – a lack of diligence on set.

Could that have happened on my watch?

For more than 20 years, I led the prop department of the "Saturday Night Live" film unit and coped with grueling days, cramped schedules and demanding bosses. During our most difficult moments, I reminded my team that this was fun, a form of make-believe for grownups, an honorable and blessed craft.

We had to stay alert and persist. Sometimes I'd joke, sometimes I'd yell, but it was always about keeping our collective eye on the ball, about our shared pride in the tiny movie we were making for a show on national TV. Call this cheerleading if you like, but it worked, along with the support of attentive producers.

Our assistant director began each morning with a safety meeting to outline the challenges of the day. This too brought us together. Confidence breeds confidence, and when we feel confident, we tend to work well.

In my view, a sense of shared purpose must have been lacking on the set of "Rust." We don't yet know all the details of what occurred during this shoot, so we can't draw firm conclusions about what led to that terrible Thursday. ("We will continue to fully cooperate with any and all law-enforcement investigations as they work through the details of this heartbreaking tragedy," a spokesperson for the production company behind the movie told CNN.)

But if multiple media reports, citing accounts from people who were working on the set, reflect the truth, days ran long, proper accommodations weren't provided and morale was low.

A source close to the production told CNN there was a "full safety meeting" the day of the accident. But David Halls, the assistant director on "Rust" who handed Alec Baldwin the gun that fired the fatal shot, told investigators that he did not check all the rounds loaded in the weapon, a detective wrote in a search warrant affidavit made public Wednesday.

Two people who worked closely with Halls during productions in 2019 told CNN that he was previously accused of a disregard for safety protocols.

The woman who acted as armorer on the movie, Hannah Gutierrez, was 24 years old and had recently completed only her first job as head armorer on a film.