Film set safety: 5 times accidents in Wilmington made national news

It didn't take long after last month's fatal film-set shooting in New Mexico for Wilmington's name to come up.

While rehearsing a scene for the western "Rust" in October, actor Alec Baldwin fatally shot cinematographer Halyna Hutchins and injured director Joel Souza. Baldwin has said he didn't know the gun he was using was loaded with a live round, and the incident is being investigated.

Almost immediately, comparisons were drawn to the fatal shooting of Brandon Lee on the set of "The Crow" in Wilmington back in 1993.

Charlie Coleman said that when he heard about the incident on the set of "Rust," "My first thought was, 'Oh no, it's happened again.' And I'd had a feeling for the last eight or 10 months that it was going to happen again."

Hitting 'pause' after 'Rust'

'Rust' shooting: Sheriff says Alec Baldwin, others cooperating Authorities in Santa Fe gave an update about the investigation into the deadly shooting on the movie set of "Rust," which involved Alec Baldwin. Entertain This!, USA TODAY

Coleman grew up around the film industry and around firearms, and for the past decade has worked in Wilmington and elsewhere as an on-set "armorer." Armorers are tasked with making sure all weapons and firearms used on film sets are safe, and it can be illegal to use certain weapons on set without the presence of a licensed armorer.

Coleman said the explosion in the number of productions due to demand for streaming content, along with the stringent COVID-19 protocols that have been in place for the past year or more, have combined to create an environment on some sets where safety can become compromised.

As a result of the shooting on the "Rust" set, Coleman said, "A lot of shows and studios are hitting the pause button" in terms of using guns.

He's currently working on the Netflix shows "Echoes" and "Florida Man" in Wilmington, which Coleman said have started using "silent blanks," which provide realistic recoil and weapon function, but without noise or projectiles.

Some have called for an end to real guns on set altogether in the wake of the "Rust" shooting, arguing that CGI and other new technologies make their use unnecessary. But Coleman said there's room for a variety of approaches to the use of firearms on set, as long as safety isn't compromised.

That can be challenging at times, Coleman said.

"If I only worked with firearms, there would never be any problems. But I also work with people," he said. So while safety is his main concern, other factors do come into play.

In Wilmington in general, "Things have improved dramatically since ('The Crow') in 1993," Coleman said, noting that there have been no major accidents locally in more than 20 years. "But do I get complacent? No."

Almost all of the well-known on-set accidents in Wilmington took place in the 1980s and 1990s, which would seem to indicate set safety locally has improved.

Here are five times that accidents on film sets in Wilmington made national news.

'Maximum Overdrive,' 1986

Based on a short story by Stephen King — who also directed the movie — about machines that come to life and start to attack people, "Maximum Overdrive" is also known for an on-set accident that seriously injured director of photography Armando Nannuzzi.