$2,000 Stimulus Check Every Month Until Covid-19 Over?

Some Democrats in Congress want you to get $2,000 stimulus checks every month until the Covid-19 pandemic is over.

Here's what you need know.

Stimulus Checks

As Congress debates the third stimulus check, some members of Congress are pushing for $2,000 stimulus checks every month. Unlike a one-time, $1,400 stimulus check, a proposal for $2,000 stimulus checks every month could be available until the economy is fully recovered. Rep Ilhan Omar (D-MN) tweeted last month: "We need $2,000 recurring checks until the end of the pandemic. I joined @TimRyan, @MichaelDTubbs, Stephanie Bonin, and Natalie Foster to push for $2,000 recurring payments for Americans until the economy is fully recovered."

Rep. Ilhan Omar on $2,000 a month stimulus checks Rep. Ilhan Omar on Twitter

In January, Omar and 55 Democrats sent a letter to President Joe Biden urging him to do more than the $1,400 stimulus check that he included in his $1.9 trillion stimulus plan.

Forbes Advisor $2,000 Stimulus Check Calculator: How Much You Could Receive?

More stimulus checks may be coming

If some Senate Democrats get their way, more stimulus checks and enhanced unemployment insurance may be coming. In the coming weeks, a group of Senate Democrats, including Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA), will send a letter to urge Biden to support recurring stimulus checks until the Covid-19 pandemic is over.

"We urge you to include recurring direct payments and automatic unemployment insurance extensions tied to economic conditions in your Build Back Better long-term economic plan," the senators write. "This crisis is far from over, and families deserve certainty that they can put food on the table and keep a roof over their heads. Families should not be at the mercy of constantly-shifting legislative timelines and ad hoc solutions."

While the letter doesn't specify a dollar amount or frequency of the stimulus checks, some of the senators previously supported $2,000 stimulus checks every month for the duration of the Covid-19 pandemic. (Vice President Kamala Harris, who didn't sign the letter, supported $2,000 monthly stimulus checks when she was a U.S. senator). Will Congress renew this policy proposal? Supporters say stimulus checks and unemployment insurance are essential tools to lift people out of poverty. According to an Urban Institute study cited in the letter: