Third Stimulus Check: Do Non-U.S. Citizens Qualify?

President Joe Biden has signed the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 into law, granting another round of stimulus checks to those in need. But does that mean non-citizens who reside in the United States will receive the check?

In some cases, yes. Anyone who pays taxes in the United States as a resident is eligible for a stimulus payment. The American Rescue Plan has specific eligibility requirements for who can receive a stimulus check. Lawful permanent residents and some qualifying resident aliens with Social Security Numbers will receive a payment.

Third Stimulus Check Calculator: Estimate How Much You'll Receive

Which Non-U.S. Citizens Are Eligible for Stimulus Checks?

First and foremost: Only people with valid Social Security numbers will be eligible to receive a stimulus payment. That means undocumented immigrants and immigrants who file their taxes with an Individual Taxpayer Identification Number (ITIN) are not eligible for a payment.

There is one specific difference with this stimulus package compared to the CARES Act, however. Last spring, families with mixed immigration status, where one family member filed tax returns with an ITIN, disqualified the entire family from receiving stimulus funds. Nearly 5.1 million U.S. citizens or permanent resident immigrants in the spring were affected by the provision, according to The Guardian. The most recent stimulus package now includes those families.

Here are the non-U.S. citizens also eligible for stimulus checks (if they have a valid Social Security number):

Lawful permanent residents

Lawful permanent residents are individuals who are legally residing permanently in the U.S. as an immigrant, according to the IRS. Generally, these individuals are granted an alien registration card, also known as a green card.

Qualifying resident aliens

It's possible to be a qualifying resident alien without having a green card. Under IRS guidelines, this includes people who are physically present in the U.S. on at least 31 days during the current year, 183 days in the past three years (including the current year) and have a valid Social Security number for employment. These individuals cannot be claimed as a dependent of another taxpayer in order to be eligible for a stimulus check.

That means participants in the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program (commonly referred to as DREAMers), Temporary Protected Status (TPS) individuals and H1-B visa holders with Social Security numbers are eligible for stimulus checks.

There are certain people who might pass the substantial presence test mentioned above, but are exempt individuals—meaning they are nonresident aliens and don't qualify for stimulus checks. That includes: