No stimulus check yet? Use IRS 'Get My Payment' tool to find the status of new COVID relief payments

If St. Patrick's Day wasn't the lucky day you got your third stimulus check deposited, hope isn't lost.

As of Wednesday, the Internal Revenue Service said it had sent out coronavirus relief checks to more than 90 million Americans under the initial round of payments made under President Joe Biden's American Rescue Plan.

More payments are on the way, and you can find out when your next stimulus payment is expected to hit your bank account or get mailed using the IRS "Get My Payment" tool. The IRS said Wednesday that more than 35 million people used the tool to get their 2021 stimulus payment status since it was updated Saturday.

But before you start entering your information hourly, the IRS says the tool "updates once per day, usually overnight" and that people should "not call the IRS. Our phone assistors don't have information beyond what's available on IRS.gov."

The third round of Economic Impact Payments will be based on a taxpayer's latest processed tax return from either 2020 or 2019. That includes anyone who used the IRS non-filers tool last year, or submitted a special simplified tax return.

For those who received the first two stimulus checks but didn't receive a payment via direct deposit, they will receive a check or a prepaid debit card in the mail.

Social Security and other federal beneficiaries will generally receive this third payment the same way as their regular benefits, the IRS said. A payment date for this group is expected to be announced soon.

An 'impossible choice": Without paid leave, people of color often must choose between a paycheck and caregiving

From stimulus checks to Tax Day 2021: Answers to your questions about IRS changes, COVID relief and more

The payments would amount to $1,400 for a single person or $2,800 for a married couple filing jointly, plus an additional $1,400 for each dependent child. Individuals earning up to $75,000 would get the full payments, as would married couples with income up to $150,000. Payments would decline for incomes above those thresholds, phasing out above $80,000 for individuals and $160,000 for married couples.