AOC blasted for exaggerating her 'trauma' from Capitol riot experience

Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is being dubbed "Alexandria Ocasio-Smollett" as details emerge that she exaggerated the extent of her "trauma" from the Capitol riot, given that she was not at the site of the siege, but in an office building nearby.

In the four weeks since the riot, Ocasio-Cortez (D-NY) has said repeatedly that she feared for her life on Jan. 6, as a result of a "very close encounter."

This week, the progressive pol shared more details of that encounter during an Instagram Live.

Ocasio-Cortez was in her office, which is located in the Cannon building, when rioters stormed the Capitol. The building is part of the overall Capitol complex, but is not within the Capitol building itself.

She had been barricaded in her office for hours when a man who turned out to be a Capitol Police officer rushed into her office to direct her to a safer location for lawmakers.

The officer, AOC said, had "anger and hostility in his eyes," making her question if he was trying to put her in a "vulnerable situation." Still, she chose to trust him and not "pass judgment."

The 31-year-old lawmaker then became emotional, revealing that she was a sexual assault survivor, which caused her to "struggle with the idea of being believed."

She gave no details about the assault or when it took place.

That struggle, she said, kept her from speaking out initially about her experience at the Capitol.

After she shared her story, Rep. Katie Porter (D-Calif.) revealed that during the riot, Ocasio-Cortez walked into her office, didn't stop to speak to her and just began opening cabinet doors.

"I was like, 'Can I help you?' Like, 'What are you looking for?'" Porter shared during an MSNBC appearance.

"'I'm looking for where I am going to hide,'" Ocasio-Cortez reportedly responded.

Porter said she tried to calm AOC down, saying that she was a mom and had plenty of supplies in the office to sustain them.

4 Map shows AOC's location in relation to the Capitol building during the Jan. 6 siege.

"She said, 'I just hope I get to be a mom. I hope I don't die today,'" according to Porter, who works next door to Ocasio-Cortez in the Longworth office building.