Still don't have a stimulus check? Here's how to track yours.

While major banks in the U.S. started delivering $1,400 stimulus checks in March, the federal relief payments continue to arrive at millions of households struggling to make ends meet amid the coronavirus-hobbled economy.

The Internal Revenue Service has delivered more than 165 million payments, with a total value of approximately $388 billion, the agency said Wednesday. The latest round includes 1 million payments, with the IRS noting they have an official payment date of May 12. That means the most recent recipients will receive a direct deposit on Wednesday, or soon get a paper check or pre-paid debit card in the mail.

The timing and delivery of checks has been a cause of anxiety for some people, especially for those who receive government benefits such as Social Security and don't typically file taxes. The IRS prioritized sending checks to people who have already filed their 2019 or 2020 tax returns, since the agency was able to quickly verify eligibility based on income and also determine where to mail or direct deposit the checks.

Following that initial distribution of checks, the IRS vetted payment data for government benefit recipients, with recipients of Social Security benefits among those still receiving their checks. On Wednesday, the IRS said the payments arriving this week include more than 460,000 "plus-up" payments for people who were owed more stimulus funds than they initially received.

The agency said it's sending another 500,000 payments to eligible people who recently filed a tax return but for whom it didn't previously have information to issue a stimulus check.

About half of the newly issued checks were sent via direct deposit, with the other half sent through the mail via paper checks or pre-paid debit cards, the IRS said.

Fourth stimulus check?

Some lawmakers are pushing for a fourth round of payments even as the IRS continues to distribute the third stimulus checks. One year after the pandemic shut down the U.S. economy, millions of people continue to experience financial hardship. About 38% of people said their household income remains impacted by the crisis, according to a study from TransUnion, a financial services firm.

That represents a significant decline from a year earlier, when about 6 in 10 people said their household income had taken a hit, but it continues to show the ongoing struggles facing many Americans, said Charlie Wise, head of global research and consulting at TransUnion.

"It's material improvement, but it indicates over one-third of consumers are continuing to feel some sort of financial impact," Wise told CBS MoneyWatch. "That's a big deal."