Do you have to return your stimulus money to the IRS? Maybe. Here's what to know

One-hundred sixty-one million third stimulus check payments have been made to individuals and families who qualify for the payments. That includes "plus-up payments" for those eligible for a larger check based on their 2020 tax returns. But what happens if the IRS sent you stimulus money you didn't actually qualify for? It could be that you'll have to return the amount you were overpaid. (This applies to the child tax credit, too.)

We'll go through scenarios where you'd have to return stimulus money you received for any of the three checks. For example, with the first stimulus check, the IRS accidentally sent out payments to people who weren't eligible. If you received a check in error, there are specific ways to send the money back, depending on the payment method used -- paper check, EIP card or direct deposit.

Read on for details to know. For more information, here's how you could get up to $50,000 back with one-time COVID credits, and what we know about student loan debt forgiveness. Brush up on the situation with a fourth stimulus check, and educate yourself on all the confusing child tax credit rules, including how much money you could get. This story has been updated.

What if you got stimulus money that you weren't eligible for with the $1,400 check?

The income cutoff to receive a third stimulus check is $80,000 for an individual taxpayer, $120,000 for a head of household and $160,000 for a married couple that files jointly. If you make more than that amount and still got a payment, the IRS will likely expect you to return all or some of it.

However, if you made more in 2020 than you did in 2019 but you get a stimulus check before filing your taxes, you won't be expected to return that money. You can use our third stimulus check calculator to estimate how much you'll get.

Watch this: Stimulus check 3: How much money you'll get 02:32

Why you may need to return some or all of the stimulus money you received

The government determines who is and isn't eligible to receive a stimulus check based on several factors. If you fall into any of these categories and received a stimulus check, it was likely by error:

You received a check for someone who has died -- but there's some nuance here (more below).

You don't have a Social Security number.

You're considered a "nonresident alien" without a US citizen spouse.

You're a noncitizen who files federal taxes.

Your adjusted gross income

You're claimed as a dependent

You received the same payment round twice.

Here's more information about who didn't qualify for the $600 stimulus check.

Was your stimulus check total calculated correctly? Sarah Tew/CNET

What to know if a family member in your household died

If you received a payment for someone who died in 2019 or earlier, the IRS says you should return the entire payment "unless it was made to joint filers and one spouse is still living." If you're the living spouse, you should return half the payment -- just not more than $1,200 in all.