Newsom proposes expanding Golden State stimulus to middle class

In summary Gov. Gavin Newsom is proposing to use federal relief money and California's record-setting tax revenue from the wealthy to send $600 stimulus checks to four out of five tax filers, pay down back rent for tenants and help millions catch up on utility bills.

At the start of the pandemic a year ago, today's news would have seemed unimaginable: The Golden State is sitting on a budget surplus so big, it's considering giving $600 stimulus checks to California households making up to $75,000, paying off back rent of tenants affected by COVID and helping millions of residents catch up on their water and electricity bills.

"California is not just back, California is roaring back," Gov. Gavin Newsom said today in announcing a whopping $75.7 billion surplus that's enabling him to propose what he claims is the largest state tax rebate in American history.

Facing a line of Republican challengers in an upcoming recall, the first-term Democratic governor seized the opportunity to showcase California's budgetary good fortunes by kicking off a statewide tour ahead of a formal budget update Friday. Billed as a $100 billion California comeback plan, the Newsom administration is able to leverage $26 billion in federal relief funds as well as a windfall from California's richest residents who have seen their wealth soar during the pandemic, even as the virus has wreaked havoc on the lives and livelihoods of millions of low-wage Californians.

California is not just back, California is roaring back. Gov. Gavin Newsom

At a press conference in the Oakland neighborhood of Fruitvale, Newsom announced an $11.9 billion expansion of his Golden State Stimulus program to send one-time $600 payments to Californians, $5.2 billion to help low-income renters stay housed, $2 billion to help Californians pay overdue water and utility bills, and $1 billion in college grants to help workers whose jobs have been decimated by the pandemic find better-paying work.

The rest of the relief proposal will address "five of the state's most stubborn challenges," according to his office. Lawmakers have until June 15 to negotiate a finalized budget.

"I'm just very proud that we are a state that reflects the type of values that recognizes that so many people were disproportionately hurt by this pandemic," said Senator Nancy Skinner, an Oakland Democrat who leads the Senate budget committee.

Her counterpart in the Assembly, San Francisco Democrat Phil Ting, piled on: "This is an opportunity to build the California, not of next year, but really, of the next 100 years."

Good timing

For Newsom, who is facing an all-but-certain recall election later this year, it's a politically fortuitous time to have tens of billions of dollars worth of goodies to sprinkle around the state. That's particularly true of the stimulus payments, which, if enacted by the Legislature, would likely wind up in taxpayers' mailboxes in the fall — around the same time as the recall ballots.