Fact check: Congress has not approved a fourth round of stimulus checks

The claim: A fourth stimulus payment worth $2,000 per person will arrive by Memorial Day weekend

Millions of Americans are still watching mailboxes and bank accounts for direct payments from the latest COVID-19 relief legislation Congress passed earlier this year.

President Joe Biden recently sent a mailer to taxpayers about the third round of payments, worth as much as $1,400 per person, that was part of the $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package Congress passed earlier this year.

This week, the IRS said it was sending another 1.1 million payments in the form of direct deposits and paper checks.

But even before the federal government can finish doling out the third wave since the start of the pandemic, discussion is brewing – and misinformation circulating – about the possibility of a fourth round.

In a May 5 Facebook post that has been shared nearly 250 times, a user wrote that a fourth stimulus payment worth $2,000 per person would be arriving by Memorial Day weekend. A child tax credit of $300 to $500 a month would run from July to December, according to the post.

The post is wrong on several levels.

Congress hasn't approved a fourth round of direct payments. And while the IRS will start sending out monthly payments for a larger child tax credit in July to some families, the user has the incorrect amounts.

The Facebook user who shared the post did not respond to a request for comment.

Pandemic relief

Congress has authorized three waves of direct payments since the COVID-19 pandemic began in spring 2020.

The first round came in the CARES Act in March 2020 and was worth up to $1,200 per person, with another $500 per child. In December, Congress signed off on a second traunch of payments of as much as $600 per person and $600 per child.

The third wave of payments, approved in March 2021, was for $1,400 per person, plus $1,400 for each dependent of all ages.

Dozens of members of Congress have said they support ongoing stimulus payments, but neither chamber has approved a fourth payment. More than 50 House members signed a letter in January imploring Biden to support recurring cash payments to Americans, and 21 senators sent Biden a letter about recurring payments in late March.

The White House has punted the discussion about a fourth round of payments back to Congress.

"We'll see what members of Congress propose, but those are not free," press secretary Jen Psaki said when asked about the potential for more direct payments during a May 4 White House press briefing.