These are the Republican lawmakers facing calls for resignation after they attended the Trump rally ahead of the Capitol riot

Days after last week's riot at the US Capitol, lawmakers have condemned the violence exhibited during the riot.

Others have referred to the rioters as "patriots" and displayed support for their actions.

Rioters were emboldened not just by President Donald Trump, who was pleading them to protest the election results, but also by the Republican rally attendees, which included state lawmakers.

On GOP state lawmaker has resigned. Here's a list of some of the Republican officials who attended the rally before the riot.

Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.

The riot on the US Capitol was preceded by a rally in support of President Donald Trump's efforts to overturn the results of the 2020 election.

That rally was attended by Republican lawmakers at the state and federal levels.

Emboldened by Trump's urges and pleas to protest the results with him, rioters who attended the rally organized an attempted coup. They stormed the Capitol building as lawmakers were meeting inside to certify the election results.

Days after the event, investigations remain ongoing and lawmakers at-large have been standing against the acts of violence demonstrated by the rioters.

At least five people, including one police officer, died. Members of the Proud Boys, which is classified as a hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center, were reportedly present.

Upon news that the riot breached the Capitol building, lawmakers began to shelter in place and many evacuated. One quick-thinking Senate aide secured the boxes containing the electoral votes, rescuing them from possible damage.

The vote to certify President-elect Joe Biden went on as planned hours after the riot began. And a day later, Trump said there would be "an orderly transition" on January 20, Inauguration Day.

The riot spurred calls to once again impeach Trump, this time on a charge for "incitement of an insurrection." Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell circulated a memo to Republicans saying Trump cannot logistically be removed from office before Inauguration Day.