You're Not Getting a 4th Stimulus Check. Here's Why

Editorial Note: We earn a commission from partner links on Forbes Advisor. Commissions do not affect our editors' opinions or evaluations.

Now that the third round of pandemic relief stimulus checks has been long spent, you might wonder if there's any potential for a fourth round of payments.

In short, no. However, a few states have opted to issue payments of their own.

Lawmakers instead are focusing on other measures to provide financial support, like child tax credit payments.

Direct payments and other pandemic relief programs have been shown to curb housing and food insecurity during the pandemic. Without them, it's likely the economic recovery after the early pandemic recession in spring 2020 would move even slower than the gradual progress it's been making for the last year and a half.

But although some members of Congress have previously called for additional aid for households still weathering the financial effects of the pandemic, there have not been meaningful discussions at the federal level about issuing another round of checks.

What States Are Sending New Stimulus Checks?

Many states have either sent, or are sending, stimulus checks to qualifying residents.

California

In July, California announced the Golden Gate Stimulus deal to provide a payment to 5.7 million people. Taxpayers earning between $30,000 and $75,000 per year can receive one-time payments of $600, and households with dependents can receive an additional $500. Distribution of those payments began in September.

New York

In April, New York started offering one-time payments of up to $15,000 for undocumented immigrants who couldn't work due to the pandemic. Applications are considered in the order received, and the state has cautioned that the fund is nearly empty.

New Mexico

New Mexico announced one-time payments of $750 to more than 4,000 low-income households that didn't receive federal stimulus payments. Applications for this program are no longer accepted, and payments were issued in early August.

Maryland

In Maryland, taxpayers with qualifying income could receive up to $500. Those payments were authorized and processed in February 2021.

Colorado

In Colorado, anyone who received unemployment benefits between March and October 2020 automatically received a one-time payment of $375.

Other State Programs

Other states have chosen to send direct payments to certain groups of frontline workers. Some teachers in Georgia and Florida received payments in 2021; in Minnesota, those receiving bonus checks included grocery store workers and medical center staffers.

In some cases, additional direct payments have come from state budgets: California's, for one, was funded by a surplus in state income tax revenue. Other state programs have used federal pandemic aid to distribute money to residents directly.

Is Congress Calling for a Fourth Stimulus Payment?

Discussion on Capitol Hill about issuing additional stimulus payments has quieted since the spring.

In late March, a group of more than 20 Democratic senators signed a letter to Biden asking for additional aid for Americans. The group recommended recurring direct payments instead of a one-time check.