Current stimulus check details: $600 California payments, $1,000 teacher bonuses, more

Families and individuals across the country have received three stimulus checks since the start of the pandemic, but a fourth stimulus check isn't likely to happen. There is, however, a petition calling for $2,000 recurring checks to all Americans, which has collected more than 2.9 million signatures, but Congress has no official plans to approve another stimulus payment at this time. But many families are still facing numerous hardships, especially since the enhanced unemployment benefits have expired and delta variant cases are rising.

To close the gap in federal support, several state governments have developed programs to give residents additional financial relief. Millions of Californians received a second round of Golden State Stimulus checks (for $600 up to $1,100), and low-income Marylanders are eligible for direct payments of $300 or $500. Educators received bonuses in states like Florida, Michigan and Tennessee, and some front-line workers in Vermont also received checks.

On a national level, advance monthly child tax credit payments (up to $300 a month per child) are continuing to go out to millions of families through December, with the next coming Oct. 15. Lawmakers are working out a federal budget package that could provide aid in other ways. And some people may qualify for up to $1,400 in additional stimulus money if they had a baby this year, though that money won't come until 2022.

Here's what to know about stimulus money that's been approved and what other aid might be coming your way. If you haven't filed your 2020 tax return yet, don't miss the Oct. 15 deadline as it could get you more stimulus money. Here's what to know about a possible extension of the child tax credit and how to check on your unemployment tax break. We updated this story recently.

Stimulus aid that's received the OK

Child tax credit payments for families: A temporary expansion of the child tax credit for 2021 sends qualifying families up to $3,600 for each child -- you can calculate your total here. The advance partial payments of up to $300 per dependent, which began this summer, are issued monthly (the next one comes on Oct. 15) through the end of the year, with a final payment in 2022.

Parents also have the option of deferring the advance monthly checks and instead get their payment in the spring. There is no cap on the total credit amount that a family with multiple children can claim. If the credit is more than what's owed in taxes, families will receive the excess amount as a tax refund next year. Plus, low-income families can qualify for the maximum credit. Here's more on child tax credit payment dates and eligibility.