The Capitol riot, 6 months on: Here are the missed warnings and failures that led to insurrection on US soil

On January 6, rioters stormed the US Capitol and tarnished American democracy.

Six months on, formal testimony, news reports, and investigations have made clear what went wrong.

Missed warnings, botched plans, and poor leadership exacerbated the chaos that day.

As Trump supporters arrived in Washington, DC, on January 6 to protest the certification of Joe Biden as the next president, 1,200 officers with the US Capitol Police stood ready.

Perhaps in the hope of setting a peaceful tone, some officers weren't allowed to start their shifts wearing riot gear, which was instead kept in buses staged around the Capitol.

But as things turned violent that day, a major mistake became obvious, one of many to typify the police response. At least one platoon found its gear locked in a bus that couldn't be opened, forcing its members to return to the front line without shields.

The Capitol riot prompted one of the worst days for US law-enforcement injuries since the 9/11 attacks, The New York Times reported in May. Seventy-three Capitol Police officers and 65 officers with the DC Metropolitan Police Department were injured. One died.

The bus incident was one of many failures that led the Capitol Police, or USCP, to six months ago cede control to a mob, which threw objects at them and battered them with flag poles.

The department maintains that it had no way of knowing what was to come. But evidence that emerged since January shows the scale of what was missed.

Drawing on congressional testimony, official reports, legal documents, and original interviews, Insider can tell the extent of the dysfunction and confusion that led to insurrection on US soil.

What came as a surprise to those on the front line was in fact anything but: Analysts had been tracking the mass movement of Trump supporters to Washington and reading plans for a military-style operation.

Had that information been acted on, perhaps the trashing of US democracy — not to mention the deaths and injuries that day — could have been avoided.

An insurrection planned in the open

The violence on January 6 had been planned online, visible to anyone who knew where to look.

Among those watching was the Network Contagion Research Institute, a nonprofit that tracks disinformation. It said that ahead of the riot it noted a sharp uptick in terms like "1776" and "Occupy" that hinted at what was to come.

One post in a Facebook group with 150,000 followers described the protest to come as "operation occupy the Capitol."

Bellingcat, the open-source intelligence group, reported on January 5 that far-right factions, including QAnon and the Proud Boys, were joining forces. Members openly discussed violence ahead of the protest, it said.

In the aftermath, prosecutors have alleged a high degree of coordination among those they now seek to convict.

On June 11, six men, four of whom are members of the Three Percenters, a self-styled militia, were indicted on suspicion of conspiring to obstruct the proceedings of January 6.

They are the third right-wing extremist group charged this way, joining 16 members of the Oath Keepers and 15 members of the Proud Boys.

The Three Percenter suspects are alleged to have coordinated travel plans and discussed how to get around local Washington laws and get to the capital with firearms.

"I personally want to be on the front steps and be one of the first ones to breach the doors!" one member, Russell Taylor, is accused of posting in a Telegram chat group ahead of the protest.