Here's who gets the new stimulus check when it arrives next week

BALTIMORE (WBFF/WKRC) — The expanded federal Child Tax Credit delivers about $15 billion in payments to families in August. Those payments help about 61 million children whose families qualify for the payments. The checks are part of the "American Rescue Plan" back in March.

The next payment arrives by direct deposit on August 15. People who receive the money by check will have to wait a few extra days for the mail to arrive. The payment on September 15th will be the 3rd payment in a series of 6 payments. The IRS is distributing the first half of the as monthly checks from now until the end of the year. The rest of the money will be received when families file their taxes in 2022.

The people who receive the payment next week are the same families that qualified for the payments in July and August. Families had to have at least one child under 18 years old. Families with children under 6 years old will get $300 per child. Families with children between 6 and 17 years old will get $250 per child.

Of course, families will only receive the money if they qualify. As a reminder, according to the IRS:

The Child Tax Credit begins to be reduced to $2,000 per child if your modified AGI in 2021 exceeds

$150,000 if married and filing a joint return or if filing as a qualifying widow or widower;

$112,500 if filing as head of household; or

$75,000 if you are a single filer or are married and filing a separate return.

The first phaseout reduces the Child Tax Credit by $50 for each $1,000 (or fraction thereof) by which your modified AGI exceeds the income threshold described above that is applicable to you.

There's one possible change to be aware of. Because of an error, about 15% of people who received a direct deposit in July . The agency said that it expects the problem to be fixed for this month's payment.

There is one other thing to know about the distribution of the checks. The IRS at the end of the year to families who received checks. Families should keep the letter. They'll need it when they file their taxes in 2022.