Second stimulus check: IRS says the $600 payments are now on their way. But how soon is now?

Millions of Americans are eagerly awaiting their second stimulus checks, which provide $600 for each eligible adult and child. The IRS said last Tuesday that it had started to distribute the checks via direct deposit, a process that will extend into this week.

The tax agency added that it started mailing paper checks on December 30 to people who don't have their bank account info on file with the IRS. But even so, the timeline leaves many people wondering when exactly the check will land in their accounts — especially as the IRS' website for checking one's payment status is unavailable.

The second stimulus check follows a rocky rollout this spring for more than 160 million stimulus payments directed by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act. That relief effort, which directed $1,200 for each eligible adult and $500 for each eligible child, encountered a number of problems, such as a delay in payment to people who didn't have their bank account information on file with the IRS, as was the case for some Social Security recipients.

The IRS will use the same method to get the money to people as it did in the first round, said Mark Steber, chief tax information officer at Jackson Hewitt.

"If taxpayers received a direct deposit then, they will again; if they received a mailed check or debit card then, they will again," he said.

But the IRS' "Get My Payment" website is currently offline. The agency said it expects its "Get My Payment" tool to be operating again "in a few days," although it didn't specify a date.

That's a problem, although the site should be up by next week, based on the IRS' statement, Steber noted. "The updated website should include information on both the first and second stimulus payments," he said.

That website allowed people this spring to provide or update their bank account data to the IRS. It also informed people when their checks would be landing in their accounts. But it, too, had glitches. Some people reported getting error messages such as "Payment status not available," while others got locked out of the site.

"Payments are automatic"