Thousands of new stimulus checks are going out through Dec. 31 -- find out who gets one

BALTIMORE (WBFF/WKRC) - With 2021 set to end so, too, is the run on stimulus check payments.

One of the most popular features of the American Rescue Plan was the money it sent directly to the American people. The bill, signed into law by President Joe Biden back in March, delivered $1,400 payments to most Americans. It also expanded the federal Child Tax Credit program and delivered the first half of the expanded credit to families in the form of monthly payments from July through December.

For now, there will be no more monthly child tax credit payments in 2022. However, some families will be receiving payments over the next few days, and they might not have expected the money.

The payments are called "plus-up" payments by the IRS. Some people were sent stimulus payments based on their 2019 tax return. Circumstances may have changed, however. Income may be lower because of a job change or losing a job. Some families may have had a child. That change will be noticed by the IRS when they filed their 2020 taxes. The "plus-up" payments are intended to make up the difference between what they received based on the 2019 tax filing and what they are owed based on their 2020 tax filing.

As a reminder, people qualify for the Economic Impact Payments if they make $75,000 or less as a single filer or $150,000 or less as a married couple filing jointly. Also, people can get the money even if they don't normally have to file a tax return. The payment is fully refundable.

People and families will automatically receive the $1,400 payments. The IRS says it will send out the "plus-up" payments until the legislative deadline of December 31. The about the payments on its website. You can of your Economic Impact Payment.

All hope is not lost for those counting on assistance in 2022. Democrats plan to resume their fight to of the Child Tax Credit stimulus payments in January.

A one-year extension is slated to cost $185 billion and the Congressional Budget Office says if it were extended 10 years, it would cost $1.6 trillion.