Some disabled Californians feel abandoned by Newsom's Golden State Stimulus

A $600 check would go a long way for Janet Clendenin.

The costs of the sugar-free foods she buys to manage her diabetes have risen sharply in South Lake Tahoe during the pandemic, Clendenin said. She usually has to criss-cross the picturesque region by bus to find discounts at Dollar Tree, Grocery Outlet and Walmart.

So when she learned about Gov. Gavin Newsom's plan to send $600 payments to the lowest income Californians in February, Clendenin felt relief.

Then came frustration.

Clendenin scoured the news for details on eligibility. She learned that she could have qualified if she worked in 2020. But a constellation of diabetes, arthritis, migraines, back injuries and nerve pain made work impossible about six years ago. Given her disabilities, she could also have qualified if only she received Supplemental Security Income, a federal safety-net program for elderly, blind and disabled people with limited income.

But nowhere could Clendenin find mention of Social Security Disability Insurance, the other main federal program for people with disabilities, which sends her $1,056 a month.

"I couldn't believe that we were left out," said Clendenin. "How unfair is that?"

It's a sentiment shared by many Californians on federal disability insurance, who have asked why Newsom's stimulus payments skipped them over.

While California lawmakers automatically sent checks to 1.2 million people who receive SSI, the 1.2 million Californians on SSDI only qualify if they had income from work in 2020. But that's rare — research shows that fewer than one in five SSDI recipients work during a typical year, often because they are limited by their disabilities or risk losing their benefits if they work too much.

Disability advocates say it's the latest example of the state abandoning some of its most vulnerable residents during the pandemic, after having directed medical health providers to ration COVID-19 care to elderly and less healthy people last spring and deprioritize people with disabilities for vaccines earlier this year — both policies that were reversed after considerable outcry.

"Overall the state has been uneven in how it's helped people with disabilities navigate the pandemic," said Andrew Imparato, executive director of Disability Rights California. "A lot of people with disabilities have had to fend for themselves."

Department of Finance spokesperson H.D. Palmer cites logistical challenges. California maintains an up-to-date list of residents who get SSI because the state supplements the federal benefit by a few hundred dollars, but doesn't have access to the same information for SSDI.

"Trying to include SSDI... would be a time-consuming and laborious process with the feds that doesn't line up with the intent of (the Golden State Stimulus) — to get immediate relief to Californians with whom we have an existing relationship," Palmer wrote in an email.

'Make hard decisions quickly'

The Newsom administration may have also based the decision on a consideration of need.

California's SSI recipients live in poverty by definition. Elderly, blind and disabled people can only qualify if they have extremely low income and wealth, and they typically receive just $954.72 per month.