Fourth stimulus check? These new payments are already in the pipeline

Scores of lawmakers want to give Americans a fourth pandemic relief payment — and maybe more beyond that. But it's not clear whether House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other congressional leaders will roll a new stimulus check into upcoming legislation to fix U.S. infrastructure and help families.

And, there's no guarantee a fourth round of direct aid would ever win approval. Republicans can be counted on to oppose it, and moderate Democrats probably wouldn't support the idea either. They questioned whether the recent third stimulus checks were necessary.

But if you're eager for another payment, to help you cover your bills and pay down debt, more federal money may already be pointed in your direction. At the very least, it's within reach.

Here are a few ways you can get what might be considered a fourth stimulus check, without any new action from Congress.

Monthly stimulus checks for families start up soon

@natasha_lebedinskaya / Twenty20

Starting July 15, the IRS will send out monthly payments to households, under a temporary expansion of the child tax credit that was included in the COVID stimulus bill President Joe Biden signed in March.

For six months, families will receive $250 for each child ages 6 to 17, and $300 for every kid younger than 6.

The checks will provide half the expanded credit for 2021. The rest can be taken as refunds when recipients file income taxes next year.

The full credit is worth $3,000 for 6- to 17-year-olds, and $3,600 for every child under 6. The usual maximum credit is $2,000 per kid, and only up to age 16.

If your family has filed your taxes this year, the IRS should have enough information to give you your child credit payments. If you don't normally file a return, the tax agency recently launched a non-filer sign-up tool you can use to make sure you get whatever child tax credit funds you qualify for.

Homeowners can get stimulus checks

Though the pandemic ushered in ultra-low mortgage rates that have showered many homeowners with refinance savings, others are still struggling to make their house payments.

Story continues

If you're having trouble staying current on your mortgage and worry you might be headed for delinquency or even foreclosure, the government has money to help.

Biden's COVID rescue package from March created a $10 billion homeowner assistance fund. A minimum $50 million has been appropriated for each state, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.

To get your share of the mortgage relief, you'll have to provide evidence you're under financial stress due to COVID. You're eligible if you earn no more than 150% of your area's median income, and if your loan balance doesn't exceed $548,250.

You apply for the homeowners assistance through your state's housing agency.

Stimulus cash is available for renters, too

In the two most recent pandemic relief bills — the one from March and an earlier one signed in December — Congress approved a total of $46.6 billion in emergency aid for tenants who can't afford to pay rent.

The National Low Income Housing Coalition calls the amount of support available for renters "unprecedented."

You can receive help if you're able to provide proof that you're struggling to pay rent or utilities because of the pandemic, and that you're facing a risk of homelessness.

Renters who qualify can get up to 18 months of assistance to cover both missed and future rent. In one state, eligible renters can receive as much as $4,600 a month; in another, they can get lump sums of up to $25,000.

The funds are being distributed by more than 400 state and local agencies.

What about a real fourth stimulus check?

U.S. senators, members of the influential House Ways and Means Committee and millions of petition signers all have made the case that many Americans still require financial assistance due to ongoing disruptions from the pandemic.