Collision report reveals Tiger Woods' confusion, low blood pressure in Southern California crash

Tiger Woods mistakenly thought he was in the state of Florida when he was interviewed by a sheriff's deputy at a Los Angeles area hospital after he crashed his vehicle in February, according to a 22-page collision report that reveals several new details about the collision sequence and aftermath.

Among the revelations in the report:

The legendary golfer's blood pressure also was "too low to administer any type of pain medication" shortly after the crash.

An empty pharmaceutical bottle was found in a backpack at the scene of the crash with no label or indication of what was inside it.

According to data from the vehicle's black-box recorder, Woods also was going in a straight line with no steering input detected until some slight steering movement registered late in the recorded crash sequence.

"Had (Woods) applied his brakes to reduce his speed or steered to correct the direction of travel, he would not have collided with the center median and the collision would not have occurred," said the report on the data prepared by Sergeant Michael Downing.

The 22-page report was obtained by USA TODAY Sports after the sheriff's department announced Wednesday that the cause of the Woods crash was "driving at a speed unsafe for the road conditions and the inability to negotiate the curve of the roadway."

The conclusion to the data report raises the question of whether Woods tried to negotiate the curve at all as he was traveling at more than 82 mph in a 45-mph zone.

Instead of staying with his lane as it curved right, Woods went straight into the median shortly after 7 a.m. local time on Feb. 23. He struck a curb, mowed down a wooden sign and drove into opposing lanes before hitting a tree and rolling over in Rolling Hills Estates south of downtown Los Angeles. He suffered broken bones in his right leg that could jeopardize his golf career.

After hitting the median, he traveled a distance of several hundred feet with no evidence of braking. Woods instead suddenly applied the gas pedal at 99% in the final seconds before hitting the raised median that separates the north and south lanes of the road, according the report. Woods also told investigators he does not remember driving.

Jonathan Cherney, a former police detective in Southern California, reviewed the crash scene Feb. 24 and said it was "like a classic case of falling asleep behind the wheel, because the road curves and his vehicle goes straight."

The collision report boosts that notion, said Cherney, who was not involved in the sheriff's investigation but now works as a forensic crash reconstruction expert.