Tiger Woods Teaches Jada Pinkett Smith How to Golf in Miniseries Filmed Day Before His Rollover Car Crash

The first episode of the series Tiger Woods filmed the day before his rollover car crash in California earlier this year has been released.

Golf Digest's A Round with Tiger: Celebrity Lessons features Woods teaching other celebrities the game, including Jada Pinkett Smith, David Spade and Dwyane Wade. The entire four-part miniseries was filmed in February the day before Woods' accident in Rancho Palos Verdes, a message at the beginning of the premiere episode says.

"The content was captured in February, the day before Tiger had his unfortunate car accident, from which he is still recovering," the message says. "With this knowledge, the deep and poignant conversations will undoubtedly resonate even more strongly with viewers. The series is being released with the blessing of Tiger and his guests."

"Shooting this series was some of the most fun I've ever had filming on the golf course," Woods, 45, said in a statement. "Each guest brought a unique perspective on life, both professionally and personally. I'm always inspired by others who are considered the best at what they do and learning about how they made it to the top."

In the debut episode, the 82-time PGA Tour winner and Pinkett Smith reflect on aging and its effect on their bodies.

"I need to have a little bit of help," Woods said when Pinkett Smith brought up his family workouts with his daughter Sam Alexis Woods, 13, and son Charlie Axel Woods, 11.

He added, "Sucks getting older."

"I like the wisdom that comes with it," the actress said, to which Woods replied, "Yeah, but the body."

The three-time U.S. Open winner continued, "You're right, about the wisdom part of it, but the body. I've had 10 operations."

"Where do you think your resilience comes from, like building your body back, building your game back, building your life and the fact that you don't even recognize it?" Pinkett Smith asked Woods.

Jada Pinkett Smith and Tiger Woods. golf digest

"I'm always fighting, you know, and I'm always trying to get better," he said. "That's all I know. I feel like I'm never out of the fight, you know, in that regard, I'm always pushing."

While the actress commented that Woods' golf game has seemingly been unaffected by his multiple injuries, he admitted, "The body definitely knows it."

The conversation now marks an eerie precursor to Woods' Feb. 23 car accident — he struck a sign in the road's center divider and cut through a tree — that led to the golfer's 11th major surgery.

The vehicle sustained major damage, and Woods underwent emergency surgery for "significant orthopedic injuries to his right lower extremity." He did not return back home to Florida until mid-March.

Wade previously spoke about filming with Woods during an appearance on Inside the NBA on the day of the accident, saying "we're all shaken" by the news of the horrible crash.