Sheriff department's investigation into Tiger Woods crash scrutinized

In the early stages of their investigation into why Tiger Woods crashed his car on Feb. 23, Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department officials made critical decisions that were favorable to Woods and effectively gave him the benefit of the doubt, according to forensic experts.

Sheriff Alex Villanueva announced that day that his deputies "did not see any evidence of impairment" with the golf legend after they found him trapped in his rolled-over SUV.

A day later, Villanueva declared the crash was "purely an accident" and said there had been no need to bring in a drug-recognition expert to evaluate Woods for impairment shortly after the car wreck.

There was no "drug recognition expert needed to respond to do any further assessment of that," Villanueva said Feb. 24. "This is what it is: an accident."

But the available evidence in the case indicates Woods was inattentive or asleep when his vehicle went straight into a median instead of staying with his lane as it curved right, multiple forensic experts told USA TODAY Sports. Woods also told deputies twice that he didn't remember how the crash occurred and didn't even remember driving after surviving the crash with broken bones in his right leg.

Such clues, including the lack of braking evidence on the road, have led experts to question two particular sheriff-department decisions as the investigation remains ongoing:

- To frame the crash as an "accident" right away. Hours after the crash, the sheriff and the deputy who responded to the 911 call both emphasized the downhill road as a potential cause.

- To not bring in a drug-recognition expert (DRE), a law enforcement officer who is trained to identify clues of impairment and determine whether the driver should have his blood examined for medications or other drugs. Calling on a DRE can be routine in serious crash investigations, but it is up to each agency in charge.

"LASD is not releasing any further information at this time," the sheriff's department said in a statement Friday. "The traffic collision investigation is ongoing and traffic investigators continue to work to determine the cause of the collision."

Woods' agent, Mark Steinberg, didn't return a message seeking comment.

Accident reconstruction experts said Woods' inability to remember driving at all was reason enough to bring in a DRE, if only to be thorough in the investigation.

"Exactly, exactly," said Charles Schack, a former New Hampshire state police trooper who is now president of Crash Experts, which analyzes traffic accidents for law firms and insurance companies. "I would have thought that you would have him evaluated by a DRE to see whether or not there are some physical clues beyond the operation that would point to impairment. To an untrained person, sometimes the effects are a bit more subtle, and require a bit more in-depth examination to bring out the evidence of impairment."

DREs don't automatically call for blood to be examined. They instead make a determination of whether it's necessary at the end of a 12-step process. That protocol can take place away from the crash scene, and it includes questioning the driver about medications and examining the driver's eyes and vital signs.

A day after the crash, Villanueva gave the following reason for not bringing a DRE into the Woods case a day earlier:

"The deputy at the scene assessed the condition of Tiger Woods and there was no evidence of any impairment whatsoever," Villanueva said. "He was lucid, no odor of alcohol, no evidence of any medication, narcotics or anything like that would bring that into question. So that was not a concern at the time. So therefore, obviously no field sobriety test and no DRE."