Latest Tiger Woods injury update comes via frequent visitor Justin Thomas

Considering Tiger Woods is, y'know, Tiger Woods, we don't hear much about him these days. We see him even less. A passing photo will pass through social media here or there; he'll be attending a kid's sporting event or heading to a doctor's appointment. But he's not exactly going out for groceries and his digital footprint is near-zero, save for a few announcements about his foundation or investments.

Woods' social circle isn't huge, and of those that see him, few provide updates. So as we approach nine months since Woods' Los Angeles car accident, the condition of the most famous golfer of all time remains largely unknown.

But now and then we get bits and pieces from those who have been in touch with him. Rory McIlroy. Rickie Fowler. Steve Stricker. But of all the PGA Tour pros, Justin Thomas seems to have the most day-to-day contact with Woods. So when he provided an update on the No Laying Up podcast earlier this week, that was about as close to a first-person source as we're likely to get.

"I'd say I probably go over and see him two or three times a week when I'm home," Thomas said. "I go over there more so to let our dogs play and hang out — it wears our pup out. But yeah, he's doing well. Especially all things considered, I think he's...I mean, it's Groundhog Day, every day's the exact same thing for him. But at least he's able to — pictures were going around of him at [his son] Charlie's tournament, [his daughter] Sam's soccer tournaments here and there. He's able to be a Dad somewhat again, which is most important."

Thomas added that Woods' personality remains largely unchanged.

"He's still his sarcastic a—— self so nothing has changed there, so I'm glad to see that he's still chipper as always," he said with a laugh.

Podcast host Chris Solomon explained that while he was reluctant to put too much emphasis on Woods' golf future, he and the rest of the world remain curious whether Woods is even thinking long-term about a comeback.