What we know: Tiger Woods 'recovering' as golfers plan to wear red on Sunday in honor of legend

The golf world's thoughts remain with Tiger Woods five days after the legend suffered serious injuries — including a comminuted open fracture in his right leg that required emergency surgery — in a car crash in Southern California.

Justin Thomas, Rory McIlroy and Patrick Reed, all taking part in the World Golf Championships-Workday Championship in Florida, have said they will all wear red and black on Sunday in honor of Woods, who has famously rocked the colors for the final day of tournaments throughout his career. Annika Sorenstam, playing in the Gainbridge LPGA tournament in Florida, has also said she will be wearing the iconic red and black color combination Sunday in a show of support for a fellow golfing legend.

The latest stories on his crash and his recovery from injury:

Could Tiger have been asleep at the wheel? Forensic experts weigh in.

The available evidence from the recent car crash involving Tiger Woods indicates that the famed golfer was not paying attention to the road and drifted off of it before crashing his car, three forensic car accident experts told USA TODAY Sports.

The same experts also say the evidence does not indicate he lost control of his vehicle because of excessive speeding on a curved downhill road that is known for speeding cars.

They arrived at this theory based on several factors, especially the way Woods' vehicle appeared to keep going straight ahead instead of staying on the road as it curved right.

Tiger's crash hits home for Yankees outfielder

New York Yankees outfielder Aaron Hicks, who is dating golfer Cheyenne Woods — Tiger Woods' niece — said "it was extremely scary'' to hear about the accident Tiger Woods was in.

Hicks said their focus is on making sure Woods is "going to be healthy again and making sure he can be a father again and be able to enjoy and run around and play with his kids.

"That's what's important to us right now.''

Latest from Tiger's team

The last update Woods' team provided came Friday night on Twitter. In it, they confirmed that Woods had been transferred to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and that he underwent follow-up procedures for his injuries Friday morning.

Woods was "recovering and in good spirits," his team said.

Cities could be held liable for the stretch of road where Tiger Woods crashed, lawyer says

The two cities responsible for the road on which Tiger Woods crashed his car and suffered serious leg injuries Tuesday could be liable for the accident, according to a California attorney who said he has been involved in similar cases.

Neil Shouse, a former deputy district attorney in Los Angeles County, cited the 13 accidents that the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said occurred on the stretch of sloped, windy road in Rancho Palos Verdes and Rolling Hills Estates where Woods crashed.