Tiger Woods responds to golfers wearing his Sunday red as he recovers from accident

It looks like Tiger Woods is watching some golf on TV while he recovers from last week's car accident in Los Angeles.

During Sunday's final rounds, players in the World Golf Championships-Workday Championship, Puerto Rico Open and Gainbridge LPGA showed their support for Woods in various ways.

Rory McIlroy, Jason Day, Justin Thomas, Tony Finau, Patrick Reed, Tommy Fleetwood, Scottie Scheffler, Carlos Ortiz, and Cameron Champ rocked similar versions of his signature Sunday-red shirt and black pants. Billy Horschel had "TW" etched on his hat while Matt Kuchar, Jason Day and Bryson DeChambeau played with golf balls stamped with "TIGER."

Golfers on supporting Tiger

Rory McIlroy: "It's just a gesture to let him know that we're thinking about him and we're rooting for him. Obviously things are looking a little better today than they were on Tuesday, but he's still got aways to go. He's got a huge recovery ahead of him."

Tony Finau: "We've enjoyed so many Sundays watching Tiger do his thing. Red and black, we know that's what Tiger does on Sundays, so to just join in and just let Tiger know we're supporting him in the best way we can. We're still playing and we miss him out here, but it was cool just to be a part of that today."

Sebastian Munoz: "He was my idol. He's the reason I played golf today. It's just a little tribute I wanted to pay to him today, just how much his life and his work have impacted my life."

Jason Day: "Just paying respect to Tiger. Obviously we hope for the best in wishing him a very quick recovery, just wanted him to know that we're thinking about him."

Justin Thomas: "I think it's just important for him to feel some kind of support. I think this shows support to him. It's not something that's going to happen every week, it's not something that people are doing every day, but obviously Sunday's a pretty special day for him and what he's wearing and just seemed like a great chance that people had the opportunity to do it."