What we know: The latest on Tiger Woods' recovery as he is transferred to new hospital

Two days after seriously injuring his leg in a single-car crash near Los Angeles that required emergency surgery, Tiger Woods was moved from Harbor-UCLA Medical Center.

Dr. Anish Mahajan, interim CEO and chief medical officer of Harbor-UCLA, announced Thursday night that Woods had been transferred to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center "for continuing orthopedic care and recovery."

Woods suffered a comminuted open fracture in his right leg during the single-vehicle, rollover crash that required emergency orthopedic surgery Tuesday.

Here is the latest on what we know about the details of Woods' crash and the injuries he suffered.

Tiger Woods' team confirmed Friday night that he had been transferred to Cedars-Sinai Medical Center and that he underwent follow-up procedures for his injuries Friday morning.

Woods "is now recovering and in good spirits," his team said.

"Tiger and his family want to thank you all for the wonderful support and messages they have received over the past few days," his team's statement read.

They had no further updates Friday.

Cities could be liable in Tiger Woods crash

Woods crashed on Hawthorne Boulevard near the border of southern California locales Rolling Hills and Rancho Palos Verdes — two peninsular cities less than 15 miles west of Long Beach in Los Angeles County.

The cities share jurisdiction of the road, according to the county. And one former deputy district attorney for Los Angeles County told USA TODAY Sports that the cities could be liable for knowing about the treacherous stretch of road and doing little about it.

Tiger Woods was headed to meet with NFL QBs

The Los Angeles Times reported Thursday that on the day of the crash, Woods was headed to Rolling Hills Country Club for a video shoot with NFL QBs Drew Brees and Justin Herbert.

The day before he'd spent a similar day with actor David Spade and NBA legend Dwyane Wade.

Tiger's injuries are mounting

Woods, 45, will have a lengthy recovery process ahead of him before reacclimating to everyday life, let alone playing professional golf.

Woods' fractures from the crash are on the upper and lower parts of both the fibula and tibia, which was inserted with a rod to stabilize the area. Screws and pins were used to treat other injuries in the ankle and foot, while doctors sliced muscle in the area to relieve pressure and swelling in the area (a safeguard against infection).

Since 2008, Woods has endured a series of injuries all over his body (knee, shoulder, neck) on top of five back surgeries.

Where was the crash? Maps, residents depict scene of the crash

The crash took place while Woods drove north on Hawthorne Boulevard slightly before 7:12 a.m. Tuesday.

The area is one of increased accident frequency, given the slope and curves on the road. Although the speed limit is 45 mph, the road moves downhill quickly.

Woods' vehicle crossed the center median and the opposing traffic lane before rolling over several times and coming to a stop.

Tiger Woods was not impaired, LA County Sheriff says

Neither Los Angeles County Sheriff Alex Villanueva or responding officer Carlos Gonzalez said it appeared Woods was not impaired or under the influence at the time of the crash.