Dr. Matt Provencher breaks down Tiger Woods' injuries and what's next

On Tuesday, the sports world stood still.

Tiger Woods survived a serious single-car accident in suburban Los Angeles that resulted in severe leg injuries and required surgery.

Woods is now at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center continuing to recover.

Following the accident, Dr. Matt Provencher, FOX Sports' injury and performance analyst and former New England Patriots team physician, broke down Woods' injuries, the recovery concerns and the golfer's future in the sport.

What were Woods' injuries?

Woods sustained an injury to his right lower leg, the one typically used to control gas and brakes in cars. As such, his right leg bore the brunt of the force to his body in the accident.

Woods' overall injury pattern resembles what is common in high-speed motor vehicle injuries.

According to Dr. Provencher, though not fully confirmed, Woods' injuries include:

Open tibia and fibula fractures, compound and comminuted in nature. Compound means the bones were through the skin, and comminuted means they were not "clean" breaks, and the bones had numerous fragments.

Injuries to his ankle and foot area. Though this is still unclear, Woods might have had an ankle fracture, an injury to the bone that supports the ankle (the talus) or an injury to the midfoot, called a Lisfranc injury. Any of these could affect ankle mobility and function.

Damage to the soft tissues surrounding the tibia. The fractures Woods sustained cause injuries to the skin and muscles of the calf. Also, blood from the injured bones and muscles can cause the calf compartment to swell.

Woods fractured both the tibia and fibula in his right leg, and it has been reported that the tibia was open (bone through the skin) and comminuted (broken in multiple pieces). This is the typical location for a break in the tibia and fibula in this kind of fracture. A surgical rod was used to stabilize Woods' leg.

Woods had a titanium nail placed in his tibia, a common treatment for this kind of fracture. Nails are typically permanent and biocompatible (hence, made of titanium), and they stabilize the bone. The nail restores the tibia to its natural length and controls rotation, ensuring the tibia is aligned with the ankle and foot bones.

Woods had his calf compartment released during surgery. That was likely due to swelling in the calf, which can suffocate the muscle from blood flow and cause necrosis (death) of the muscle tissue — which is dangerous and irreversible — or as a preventive measure to avoid compartment syndrome, which is important for successful recovery.

What are some other concerns?