Tiger Woods' Car Crash: Lindsey Vonn, LeBron James, Alex Rodriguez and More Celebs Send Well-Wishes

Celebrities are wishing Tiger Woods well following his serious car accident on Tuesday.

The 45-year-old pro golfer had to be pulled from his vehicle by firefighters and paramedics, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department said in a statement. He was transported by ambulance to a hospital for injuries, the LASD noted. According to the LASD, the athlete was the sole driver and occupant in the crash and his vehicle sustained major damage.

Woods' agent, Mark Steinberg, said that the golfer has suffered multiple leg injuries and is in surgery, in a statement obtained by Golf Digest writer Daniel Rapaport.

Jay Monahan, the commissioner of the PGA Tour, said in a statement, "We have been made aware of Tiger Woods' car accident today. We are awaiting further information when he comes out of surgery. On behalf of the PGA TOUR and our players, Tiger is in our prayers and will have our full support as he recovers."

Woods was in Los Angeles for the PGA Tour's Genesis Invitational, which his foundation runs, per GolfChannel.com. While he did not play in the tournament, he was on hand over the weekend to take part in the trophy presentation. Max Homa, the winner of the tournament, also tweeted about Woods' accident, writing, "Thinking of TW and hoping for the best. Plz let there be some good news soon."

The athlete was staying at Terranea Resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, to do a two-day shoot with Golf Digest/Golf TV at Rolling Hills Country Club, about two miles from the crash site," the site adds.

GolfTV also tells ET that Woods was filming his latest series with the channel on Monday, giving on course instruction to a number of celebrities including Jada Pinkett Smith, Dwyane Wade and David Spade. He was due to continue filming on Tuesday.

"Everyone at Discovery and GolfTV wishes Tiger a speedy recovery and our thoughts are with him, his family and his team at this time," the network said in a statement.

A source also tells ET that Woods was expected to do a shoot with Chargers football player Justin Herbert on Tuesday. Herbert is not doing any interviews with regard to Woods' accident.

Lindsay Vonn, Woods' ex, tweeted, "Praying for TW right now."

"Damn bro prayers for Tiger Woods," LeBron James tweeted, while country star Jake Owen wrote that his heart "goes out to" the golfer, adding that he's "praying for ya man."

"Praying for my brother @TigerWoods as we all anxiously await more news," Alex Rodriguez tweeted. "Thinking of him and his entire family."

Julian Edelman, Isaiah Thomas, and Aaron Tveit also expressed their well-wishes on Twitter.

One day before the crash, Woods golfed with David Spade and Jada Pinkett Smith.