Tiger Woods rushed to surgery with leg injury after rollover car crash in Los Angeles County

Golf great Tiger Woods suffered "serious leg injuries" to both legs and was rushed into emergency surgery Tuesday after a harrowing rollover car crash in Los Angeles County, authorities and his manager said.

Woods, 45, was conscious but still trapped in the badly mangled 2021 Genesis GV80 SUV, wearing his seat belt, when the first sheriff's deputy made it to the scene shortly after 7 a.m.

"I made contact with him and ensured that he was able to speak to me. At that time he seemed as though he was still calm and lucid," Los Angeles County Sheriff's Deputy Carlos Gonzalez said at an afternoon press conference.

"I asked him what his name was, he told me his name was Tiger. At that moment I immediately recognized him. I asked him if he knew where he was, what time of day, just to make sure he was oriented. He seemed as though he was lucid," Gonzalez said.

"He didn't seem concerned about his injuries at the time, which is not uncommon in traffic collisions. Many times people tend to be in shock," he said.

Once Los Angeles County Fire officials extricated Woods from the vehicle using an ax and hooligan tool to remove the windshield, the extent of Woods' injuries became more apparent.

"Unfortunately, Mr. Woods was not able to stand under his own power," Gonzalez said, explaining paramedics placed the golfer on a backboard.

"It was my understanding he had serious injuries to both legs," Los Angeles County Fire Chief Daryl Osby told reporters, adding that Woods also was fitted with a cervical collar before he was taken to Harbor-UCLA Medical Center.

The Los Angeles Times, citing an unnamed source, said Woods suffered a shattered ankle and two leg fractures, one of which was compound.

"He is currently in surgery and we thank you for your privacy and support," Woods' manager Mark Steinberg said in a statement Tuesday afternoon.

A vehicle rests on its side after a rollover accident involving golfer Tiger Woods along a road in the Rancho Palos Verdes section of Los Angeles on Tuesday, Feb. 23.

Woods was the lone occupant in the vehicle, the sheriff's department said.

Sheriff Alex Villanueva said speed appeared to be a factor, but a full investigation was needed to make a final determination.

He said the vehicle hit a center divider, "crossed into the opposing lane of traffic, hit the curb, hit a tree and there were several rollovers during that process" before the vehicle finally came to a rest "several hundred feet away."

"Obviously that indicates they were going at a relatively greater speed than normal," Villanueva told reporters. "However, because it is downhill, it slopes and it also curves, that area has a high frequency of accidents."

He said there was no evidence of "skid marks" or "braking" where Woods rolled off the road near the intersection of Hawthorne Boulevard and Blackhorse Road in Rolling Hills Estates.