Mystery man at Tiger Woods crash scene reveals new details about accident

A man who lives near the Tiger Woods accident site — and who heard the crash — was first on the scene and found the golfer unconscious in his mangled SUV, authorities said in court documents made public Friday.

The LA Sheriff's Department is reportedly attempting to examine the black box recording from Woods' luxury vehicle, with the court documents part of its effort to obtain the data.

Watch Live Coverage from The USPGA Tour with Fox Sports on Kayo. New to Kayo? Try 14-Days Free Now >

The data should be able to show investigators the speed of the vehicle before the collision and whether its brakes were applied, according to USA Today.

Sheriff Alex Villanueva told reporters last week there was no indication Woods was impaired by alcohol or any other substances at the time of the incident, which is why no tests were taken and why no criminal charges were laid.

There have been reports however that Woods was not paying attention or even fell asleep at the wheel before the injury.

Woods suffered a shattered ankle and two leg fractures and has undergone several surgeries since the incident.

But the New York Post has revealed that the man who was first on the scene but was not named in the court documents, was the first on the scene and found Wood unconscious.

The man lives near the site in Southern California's Rolling Hills Estates, and was close enough to walk to the crash site, where he found Woods' face and chin covered with blood, the documents said.

The paperwork says the mystery good Samaritan tried to speak to the injured golf star, but was unable to get a response.

By the time the first officers arrived, though, Tiger had apparently come to.

He was "calm and lucid" as fire officials pulled him from the wreck, officials have said.

The same paperwork also indicate that Woods told arriving cops that he couldn't remember driving — and deputies had to tell him he had been in a crash.

Woods released his first public comments since the accident during the week when he tweeted his thanks to fellow golfers for wearing red and black for the final day of the $13 million Workday Championships.

"It is hard to explain how touching today was when I turned on the tv and saw all the red shirts," Woods tweeted. "To every golfer and every fan, you are truly helping me get through this tough time."