19 Best Tom Brady Super Bowl Memes

The much-hyped Super Bowl LV wasn't the epic showdown many anticipated, as Tom Brady and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers handily defeated Patrick Mahomes and the Kansas City Chiefs, 31-9.

It marks Brady's 7th Super Bowl victory, far and away the most of any player in history.

Of course, many on the internet had opinions, jokes, and memes to make. There were some good ones.

For those who root for Tom Brady, congratulations. For those of us who don't root for Tom Brady, well, I mean, we're kind of running out of things to say and/or do. The man just keeps on winning and it's starting to feel like it's just going to keep happening for eternity. Brady, who now plays for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, locked up his 7th Super Bowl (the most of any player ever) in his first season since leaving the New England Patriots.

Last year's champion Kansas City Chiefs and their incredible young QB Patrick Mahomes seemed to be a good match for Brady and the Bucs, but that turned out to not be the case; Brady was formidable on offense, particularly when hooking up with his old pal Rob Gronkowski, but it was the way Tampa's defense, led by Defensive Coordinator Todd Bowles, stifled the Kansas City offense that powered the Bucs to their win in the big game.

Super Bowl LV was exciting for some, and frustrating for many, but at least there's one thing from the game's aftermath that can bring people together: funny memes and tweets. Some may just have to acknowledge Brady's undeniable greatness, while others can make fun of a bit of the man's corniness. It's all fair game in love and memes.

Let's take a look at some of our favorites.

Sure, Tom Brady won another Super Bowl. But at least that makes for an excuse to make a little fun of his old New England Patriots coach, Bill Belichick.

Robert Horry, an NBA champion with the Lakers and Spurs and one of the most underrated winners in sports, shouted Brady out for matching his own seven rings.

Someone else with 7 rings? Ariana Grande, who has a banger of a 2019 single called, yes, "7 rings."

Doesn't it feel like we've been hearing about Brady throwing to Gronkowski in the Super Bowl for decades at this point?

It just feels all too familiar...

He's also old.

He may not even be the most important QB on his own team! (Yes, this is a joke.)

And, let's be real, it did feel like some of the penalty calls got a bit one-sided at certain points.

Sometimes, sorry, Brady is just an easy target.

We can also get a little existential with all of this if it will make anyone feel any better.

It also brought up a bit of conversation about some other G.O.A.T.S.

LeBron James (age 36) recognized a fellow athlete with, let's say, seniority.

Lindsey Berra (granddaughter of baseball legend Yogi Berra) made a good point: no one's really touching Yogi just yet.

But as much as we make fun, it's really kind of impossible to deny the man's achievements at this point.

Until next year, NFL fans, we're just going to have to deal with Brady as the reigning champ again. Just more motivation for an extra fiery offseason, if you ask this guy.