Opinion: Tom Brady needed the Bucs just as much as they needed him

GREEN BAY, Wis. -- Tom Brady didn't want to talk about Tom Brady.

He had just punched his ticket to a 10th Super Bowl appearance, 10 months after embarking on a journey that few understood. He had delivered an electrifying first-half performance, paving the way for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers' 31-26 victory over the Green Bay Packers in the NFC Championship.

But when asked about the magnitude of his accomplishment -- leading Tampa Bay to its first Super Bowl since 2002 -- and his decision to bet on himself and the Bucs, Brady preferred to deflect.

"This is an ultimate team sport," Brady said. "We've had a lot of people work hard over a course of time to get to this point. It's a tough journey to get here, so to go on the road, win another road playoff game is a great achievement."

Again, Brady was asked about his journey, from face of the six-time world champion New England Patriots for 20 years to hitting the reset button with a previously 7-9 team that had the NFC's longest playoff drought. But he kept focusing on everybody else.

He praised head coach Bruce Arians and his coordinators, Byron Leftwich, Todd Bowles and Keith Armstrong. He praised the young playmakers on both sides of the ball.

"It has taken a lot of people on all sides of the ball to come through ... just an incredible journey for all of us," Brady reiterated. "And I'm proud to be a part of it."

Brady's responses came from a place of appreciation. Because here he is, in the twilight of his career, nearly a year after the coach and team he gave his heart and soul to for two decades no longer valued what he had to offer, taking for granted how he elevated those around him. And here he is, 43 years old and surrounded by everything he could have ever asked for:

An organization that craved him so much they kicked their former first overall pick to the curb to make room for him.

A head coach who greatly respects him and offensive coordinator who welcomes his input.

An offense full of talent rather than New England's bare cupboard -- an offense full of deficiencies that Brady was asked to compensate for by his former coach.

A game-changing defense that could ease the load and at times clean up the messes that he made.

As perfect as Brady has been for the Bucs, they have been just as perfect for him.

Brady wasn't ready to be put out to pasture, as it seemed Bill Belichick desired in those latter years in Foxborough. The quarterback still loved the game too much, still had too much left to prove and still wanted to win. That's why he was willing to put himself through the arduous task of starting from scratch as he entered a 21st NFL season.

Tampa's players and coaches afforded him the opportunity to achieve all of his goals. And he would be able to pursue each without having to do it all on his own.

Of course that didn't mean Brady took his foot off the accelerator. He continued to work just as hard and demand just as much. He set a tone for the Bucs, who are hungry to taste true success for the first time in many of the players' careers.

"He's at the helm, he's our leader and he's the reason why we're as good as we are," wide receiver Scotty Miller said. This season, Miller more than doubled his production from a year ago and on Sunday caught one of three Brady touchdown passes. "He makes it easy to get behind him. His composure. We know he's going to get it done. He had a couple picks, but we know when the game is on the line, he's going to make a play."