Whose side are you on? Why I back Bill Belichick in the Tom Brady vs. the coach debate

FOXBORO — Rodney Harrison is upset.

I don't blame him. The question, which I asked, was unfair. I even acknowledged as much.

"Who deserves more credit for the Patriots' success — Tom Brady or Bill Belichick?"

It's a debate that's raged on for a while now, but it's heated up recently. It's easy to understand why. Brady left the Patriots and won a Super Bowl without Belichick. As soon as that happened, people declared Brady the winner.

Brady 1, Belichick 0.

Now, on Sunday, we have Brady returning with his reigning Super Bowl champion Tampa Bay Buccaneers to take on Belichick's 1-2 Patriots squad. Hence the reason why the topic has come up again, and it's understandable that it seems Brady is getting the bulk of the credit. Without Brady, Belichick's Patriots finished 7-9 in 2020. Without Brady, Belichick is 63-75 in his career.

'It wasn't a question of not wanting him': Belichick says he never wanted Brady to leave

In reality, those numbers are misleading. Football isn't about one person. It's not about one coach. It's about 11 players on offense and 11 players on defense. It's about teamwork. It's about "doing your job" to accomplish higher goals.

That's why Harrison is upset.

"I think it's stupid, OK?" Harrison replied to our question. "I think it's disrespectful. Not only is it disrespectful to Tom and Bill, but it's disrespectful to all those great players that came along that were part of those championship teams because, at the end of the day, it wasn't Bill and Tom versus everybody else. It was an entire team. ... I just think it's dumb."

Harrison makes a fair point. The Patriots didn't win six Super Bowls just because of Brady and/or Belichick. There are hundreds of players who helped bring those championships to New England. Where would the Pats be without Adam Vinatieri? Or Malcolm Butler? Ty Law? Julian Edelman?

When the Pats won their last Super Bowl, the offense scored just 13 points. That's the worst scoring output by a Super Bowl winner in NFL history. The real story of that win over the Los Angeles Rams was the team's defense that allowed three points — that's also an NFL Super Bowl record.

From the coach: Belichick denies talk of a bad relationship with Brady

Football is the ultimate team game.

The problem is, I disagree, slightly, with Harrison and mostly everyone on this topic.