How Eli Manning Battled Tom Brady And Won The Super Bowl Twice

With the 2020 NFL playoffs in full swing, much of the country's football fanbase is focused on one matchup. This Sunday, January 17, the New Orleans Saints take on the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the NFC's Divisional round. But it's not about these NFL franchises so much as who is leading them now and what they have accomplished. In short, the buzz is about two legendary quarterbacks squaring off.

The Saints' Drew Brees, the all-time leader in passing yards (80,358) and completions (7,142), will take on longtime New England Patriots QB and new Bucs leader, Tom Brady, who sits second in both all-time passing yards and completions (with 79,204 and 6,778).

Like most of us, longtime News York Giants quarterback Eli Manning says he'll be tuned in for the big face-off too. The four-time NFL Pro Bowler, who spent his entire career with the Giants, won two Super Bowls with them—Super Bowls XLII and XLVI, both against Tom Brady and the Patriots.

Since retiring after the 2019 season, Manning has kept a mostly quiet profile, especially if you compare his activity to that of his very outgoing brother, former Denver Broncos quarterback and fellow two-time Super Bowl champ Peyton Manning. Over the years, Eli Manning has been involved in his share of charity work and has sat on the previous administration's President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports. He's also been a brand ambassador for such well-known names as Citizen Watch Co., Toyota and NFLShop.com.

Related Article: Jerome Bettis says NFL still a running back's game

And with the annual march to the NFL's biggest game, you'll likely see Manning take to his old stomping ground at MetLife Stadium, along with former Giants teammate Victor Cruz, to talk Super Bowl game day food ideas for Stella Stadium Bites, a partnership involving beer mega brand Stella Artois and food kit maker Blue Apron APRN .

Earlier today, I spoke with the 15-year NFL veteran about his thoughts on the NFC Playoffs, his past rivalry with Tom Brady and the Patriots, and what it's like to be part of the Manning Family football dynasty.

Andy Frye: This weekend the buzz is on the Saints-Bucs game, with Tom Brady versus Drew Brees. You've played against both these guys, so what's your take?

Eli Manning: It's a great matchup and they've already faced each other twice this season, but both quarterbacks are playing great football right now. Even with his injury, Drew has come back and played great last week. And Tom is doing the same. They both have all their weapons and have come back healthy. Both defenses are playing well, and so it will be interesting how it plays out.

It's amazing what both those guys are doing at 40-plus years old, still playing at such a high level.

Related Article: Why NY Giants' Zak DeOssie Left Football For Wall Street

AF: You beat Brady twice in the Super Bowl. What was your mindset like in those games, and how did you lead your team to beat the Patriots?

Manning: Well, it's really easy to beat them. You just have to have Michael Strahan, Justin Tuck, Osi Umenyiora and Jason Pierre-Paul on the defensive line—guys like that—making a bunch of sacks, and it shouldn't be a problem at all.