C'mon, he's the G.O.A.T.! Survey says rename Super Bowl MVP trophy for Tom Brady

I recently wrote a column positing this question: Should the Super Bowl MVP Trophy be renamed for Tom Brady, who has now won the trophy five times?

It was accompanied by an informal survey.

The trophy currently is named for late NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle.

Brady has played in 10 Super Bowls, won seven and was named the game's MVP five times.

The big question: Should Super Bowl MVP Trophy be renamed for Tom Brady?

199th pick: What you need to know about Tom Brady

Forget Tom Brady's tweets: Former Tampa Bay Bucs coach John McKay is the G.O.A.T. of quotes

Rozelle essentially built the NFL into what it is today and helped created the Super Bowl. There's no question of his greatness.

However, I wondered if an award won by a player should be named after a player?

The Super Bowl Trophy is named after Vince Lombardi, the first coach to win a Super Bowl. So why shouldn't the Super Bowl MVP trophy be named after a player?

We'll get to the results in a minute, but first I wanted to share some of the great feedback as to why some people agreed, and why some didn't.

Tom from Ohio, would like to see the trophy renamed, sharing this thought: "It's not the Most Valuable Commissioner award?"

Derrick from Virginia agreed but offered this on how to continue to honor Rozelle: "The Rozelle Trophy should be for the coach or general manager of the year. Or franchise of the year award."

Rozelle had his defenders.

Jim from Massachusetts stuck up for Rozelle then made the most common argument I received against renaming the trophy: "First, it would be extremely disrespectful to Pete Rozelle. More importantly, Tom Brady was found guilty and sanctioned by the league for his role in cheating. That's not someone that should have a trophy such as this named after him. Some of his cheating helped him achieve what he has."

Jim, of course, references the 2015 controversy where footballs in an AFC Championship game were found to be under the NFL's gauge pressure requirement. Brady was suspended the first four games the following year after a lengthy investigation.

Others chimed in to say yes and refute the Deflategate argument, pointing out the Wells report convicted Brady with statements like: "The investigation concluded that it was 'more probable than not' that New England Patriots equipment personnel were deliberately circumventing the rules."

That's an argument for another day.

The most common response for renaming the trophy for Brady was simply, "He's the GOAT."

That phrase has become a bit tired and overused during the past few weeks, but in this survey it was used dozens of times.

Another common suggestion was summed up well by Rich in Venice, Florida: "I'd wait until TB12 retires and then, after 5 years, rename it."

Many didn't think it was a good idea to rename it while he was still playing.

Chris from North Carolina took it a step further with a "no" vote — for now: "That decision should not be considered until Tom is enshrined in the Hall of Fame .. it is important to respect the history of the game ... but great idea."

I had to make sure those last three words got in there.

Matt from Indiana is against it despite being a fan: "I love Brady but he did not win the Super Bowls by himself. The Bucs defense was the main reason why they won the game this year. Brady is one of the greatest QB's ever... but please do not change the name."