Tom Brady super fan from Seacoast now in Tampa, still cheering him on in the Super Bowl

Robert Flagg is a longtime Tom Brady fan, and that fandom has traveled with him all the way to Tampa Bay, Florida.

Flagg is looking forward to cheering for Brady and the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in Sunday's Super Bowl LV against the Kansas City Chiefs.

"That's how I made some of my best friends through Tom Brady," Flagg said.

This is Brady's first year with the Buccaneers after 20 seasons with the Patriots.

Flagg, 24, grew up in North Hampton, and like many folks in the region, became a Brady fan at a young age. "Just seeing what he did for the Patriots and for the community," said Flagg.

Ten-rific!: Tom Brady will play his 10th Super Bowl. Here's a look back at his 9 previous appearances

This will be Brady's 10th Super Bowl appearance. He won six with the Patriots. This Sunday will also be the first time the Super Bowl is played at the home field of one of the teams in the game.

Flagg moved to Florida in 2014 after graduating from Winnacunnet High School and attended the University of Tampa. He graduated in 2018 with a degree in sports management.

How to watch Super Bowl 2021: Tampa Bay Bucs vs. Kansas City Chiefs on TV, live stream

Hampton Beach and Tampa Bay are not as similar as one might imagine. "It's a lot different than growing up in a city," Flagg said of Hampton Beach. "It's like a closer community. It's more of a tight-knit group definitely."

Flagg participated in many sports and activities in New Hampshire, but he really enjoys the snow. "I'm a huge skier," Flagg said. "Me, my family and all my friends, in the wintertime it was just that."

Growing up in New England, being a Brady and Patriots' fan was only natural for Flagg. "When (Brady) was on the Patriots, it was a whole team thing," Flagg said.

Flagg has many great Patriots and Brady memories to choose from, but his favorite occurred in 2017.

The Patriots played the Atlanta Falcons in Super Bowl LI, and Flagg threw a watch party in Tampa.

The Patriots came back from a 28-3 deficit to stun the Falcons, 34-28. Flagg was one of two people in attendance at the party rooting for Brady and the Patriots, so it was pretty sweet in the end. "They were eating their words," Flagg said. "So honestly, that has to be the best moment.

"My entire thought process is we're never out of it," he said. "With Tom Brady, you're never done until the fourth quarter really ends. I wasn't worried."

Fast forward to the 2020 offseason and Brady decided to leave New England. "I get it, I totally get it," Flagg said. "You can't ask for more than what he gave us."

Leaving New England: Tom Brady explains why he left Patriots for 'intriguing' Buccaneers

It worked out great for Flagg when Brady decided to sign with Tampa Bay, right next to one of his biggest supporters.

"I was pretty hyped, because he actually moved five minutes away from my house," said Flagg. "I'm neighbors with Tom Brady."

Rooting for Brady in Tampa is slightly different than what Flagg is accustomed to. "I'm more of a Brady (and Gronk) fan, than an actual Buccaneers fan," said Flagg. His Tampa buddies are perfectly fine with that. "I think they understand," Flagg said. "I'm coming with Brady; I came down to Tampa, too."

Brady, now 43, has expressed playing until age 45 or beyond. Flagg sees Brady playing into his late 40s and has a theory on why: "I honestly think that he wants to go for 12 rings."