Every time Tom Brady's faced Matthew Stafford, he's won the Super Bowl

The biggest free agent of 2020 and the biggest trade acquisition of 2021 will both take the field at SoFi Stadium when the LA Rams host the Tampa Bay Buccaneers this Sunday. How Tom Brady and Matthew Stafford each got to their respective teams is somewhat of a football miracle, but in this timeline the Rams and Bucs look like the two most dangerous teams in the NFC in large thanks because of their quarterbacks.

How Stafford and Brady were viewed as draft prospects is like comparing apples to sixth round picks but it's always been a marquee matchup whenever the two quarterbacks are playing in the same game. So far, that's only happened twice, with each player winning once, but there were two other near-opportunities that didn't quite happen.

2010 - Stafford sits out

The first close encounter came in 2010, Matthew Stafford's second season in the NFL. The Detroit Lions hosted the New England Patriots in Week 12 that year, but Stafford went on injured reserve with a shoulder injury after three games and therefore did not play in the game, a 45-24 win for the Patriots.

2014 - When the Lions had the number one defense ... until they had to play the Patriots

In 2014, the Lions were actually doing well above expectations and they had the top-ranked defense in the NFL going into another Week 12 meeting against the Patriots. Detroit was first against the run and they hadn't given up more than 24 points to any opponent. The Lions 7-3 record at the time was actually considered by some to be a sign that Stafford was holding Detroit back from being a better team.

That day would not turn out to be Stafford's redemption story, as he went 18-of-46, threw an interception, and the Lions lost 34-9. And to this day, legend has it, the 39-percent completion rate he posted against New England is the lowest of his career.

Tom Brady threw for 349 yards, the most by a quarterback against the Lions all year.

Detroit safety James Ihedigbo feigned confusion when a reporter asked if teams had "figured out" their defense.

"What? What are you talking about?" Ihedigbo said. "We're the No. 1 defense, what are you talking about figured us out? What does that mean? I don't get it."

The Detroit Free Press also notes in the post-game article that Lions receivers dropped three touchdown passes against the Patriots. Said Stafford:

"You play a good team like New England, the whole team has to play well and we didn't."

The Lions ended up winning the next four games and made the playoffs at 11-5, losing in the wild card round to the Dallas Cowboys, 24-20.

The Patriots won the Super Bowl.

2018 - Stafford gets redemption, and Matt Patricia borrows some of it from him

Detroit and New England would meet again in 2018 and this time the face-off that everyone was talking about was first-year Lions head coach Matt Patricia against his old boss Bill Belichick.

The Lions were 0-2 and facing the Patriots on Sunday Night Football, but Stafford was prepared for the moment. Stafford said before the game that he wasn't focused on Brady, but on New England's defense:

"(I) just want to go out there and play my best for my team, and no doubt it'll be against their defense and not him. But they're just a really good football team, so we're looking forward to playing against a really good football team," he said.