Bucs' Initial 2021 53-Man Roster Includes Just 10 Newcomers

Head Coach Bruce Arians hinted during the last week of training camp that his team would carry either 10 linebackers (outside and inside) or 10 defensive backs (cornerback and safety). At the moment, the extra spot goes to the linebackers, with outside linebacker Cam Gill and rookie inside linebackers K.J. Britt and Grant Stuard all making it.

The Buccaneers retained six of their seven 2021 draft picks, with the exception being seventh-round cornerback Chris Wilcox. The only undrafted rookie still on the roster after Tuesday's cuts is kicker Jose Borregales, who handled the placekicking duties in the preseason finale at Houston with Succop unavailable.

Listed below is how the initial 53-man roster breaks down, with the players listed alphabetically at each position (rookies marked with an asterisk). We've also included the four players currently on the reserve/COVID-19 list, some or all of whom could be activated to the 53-man roster in the coming week.

Quarterbacks (3): Tom Brady, Blaine Gabbert, Kyle Trask*

The Buccaneers kept Trask, a second-round draft pick and possibly an eventual successor to Brady, over long-tenured but little-used veteran Ryan Griffin. Gabbert is likely to be the primary reserve for Brady in 2021, however.

Running Backs (4): Giovani Bernard, Leonard Fournette, Ronald Jones, Ke'Shawn Vaughn

One of the few new veterans on the roster, Bernard appears to have carved out a significant role as a third-down back, while Fournette and Jones remain essentially co-starters. Vaughn, the 2020 third-round pick, helped his cause for the fourth spot in the backfield by finding a role on special teams as a gunner.

Wide Receivers (6): Antonio Brown, Jaelon Darden*, Mike Evans, Chris Godwin, Tyler Johnson, Scotty Miller

There was little surprise in the top five receivers retained with the starting trio of Evans, Godwin and Brown backed up by promising young players Johnson and Miller. Darden appears to have beaten out Jaydon Mickens for the return job, thus securing the sixth spot. The Bucs cut Mickens, Cyril Grayson and Travis Jonsen to get down to six and any or all of those three could be top candidates for the practice squad.

Tight Ends (3): Cameron Brate, Rob Gronkowski, O.J. Howard

Neither Hudson nor McElroy apparently offered enough as a blocker or a special teams player to prompt the Bucs to keep a fourth tight end, though both are strong pass-catchers and could stick around on the practice squad. With both Howard and Brate coming off injuries and Gronkowski coming off his first-ever 20-game season, the Bucs will likely keep some depth on that secondary unit.

Offensive Linemen (9): Alex Cappa, Robert Hainsey*, Ryan Jensen, Ali Marpet, John Molchon, Donovan Smith, Aaron Stinnie, Josh Wells, Tristan Wirfs, (Nick Leverett and Earl Watford – COVID list)