Saints frustrate Brady again, beat SB champ Buccaneers 9-0

TAMPA, Fla. (AP) — Nobody hounds Tom Brady like the New Orleans Saints.

Cameron Jordan and the New Orleans defense gave Brady fits again, shutting down Tampa Bay's high-powered offense Sunday night as the Saints put the Buccaneers' division-title celebration plans on hold with a 9-0 victory over the reigning Super Bowl champions.

"Just a tough night. Didn't do much of anything right," said Brady, who smashed a tablet on the bench in frustration late in the fourth quarter.

"I wish it was just one thing. It was a lot of things," he added. "We just didn't play well enough. We're not going to win scoring no points."

Despite playing without coach Sean Payton on the sideline, the Saints (7-7) beat the Bucs (10-4) for the seventh straight time during the regular season — fourth since Brady left New England for Tampa Bay in 2020.

And no doubt, defense was the driving force behind this one.

"You can't say enough about what they did to pitch a shutout like that. And against a Brady-led offense, it's incredible," Saints quarterback Taysom Hill said. "Part of our play calling and all that was reflective of how well they were playing."

The victory gave New Orleans a sweep of the season series between the NFC South rivals and boosted the Saints into playoff position with a hold on the conference's final wild card. It also forced Tampa Bay to wait at least another week to clinch its first division crown since 2007.

The Bucs, who did win a playoff game at New Orleans last January en route to winning the Super Bowl, lead the division by three games with three weeks remaining in the regular season.

With defensive coordinator Dennis Allen standing in for Payton, who missed the game after testing positive for COVID-19, the Saints stymied the NFL's No. 1 passing and scoring offense and ended Brady's streak of 255 consecutive starts (including playoff games) without being shut out.

Former Saints star Drew Brees (304) is the only quarterback with a longer run.

"This wasn't in any way a one-man show," Allen said. "This was an organization that came together and won a game."

Jordan had two of New Orleans' four sacks, surpassing 100 for his career, and forced a key fumble in the lowest-scoring game of the NFL season. It was the first time Brady lost to an opponent that didn't manage a touchdown.