10 things we learned from Episode 7 of the Tom Brady documentary, 'Man in the Arena'

Patriots 10 things we learned from Episode 7 of the Tom Brady documentary, 'Man in the Arena' "If there's one game that signifies what our team was always about, it's Super Bowl LI." Tom Brady during Super Bowl LI. AP Photo/Darron Cummings

In the seventh episode of the Tom Brady documentary, "Man in the Arena," the 44-year-old quarterback's family receives some focus while the story of the 2016 Patriots is recounted.

Interwoven with details about one of New England's most celebrated championships—culminating with the comeback from a 28-3 deficit in Super Bowl LI — Brady's three older sisters chronicle both his career and growth off the field from their unique perspective.

Maureen, Julie, and Nancy Brady joined their brother to be interviewed for the episode, discussing the team's on-field success simultaneous to the more personal story of their mother battling cancer.

Here are a few takeaways from Episode 7, titled, "Surrender":

The Brady family view of "Deflategate"

After receiving coverage in the previous episode, the "Deflategate" controversy was once again back in the documentary as Brady's 2016 four-game suspension was discussed.

In Brady's view, the entire subplot was "a lot about who had power and authority."

"What it started out as vs. what it became were two totally different things," he explained.

Brady's siblings shared that view, noting that accusations drifted over time as the initial reports of discrepancies in the pressure of footballs were seemingly disproven by the ideal gas law.

"A lot of people were waiting for that moment to kind of dig in," said Nancy. "It was vicious."

Ultimately, Brady believed that it wasn't productive to continuously defend his actions.

"I don't need to defend myself," he said. "I've defended myself for a long time. I said what I had to say multiple times, in front of a lot of different people, in court, in public. I felt I had given them what they needed to make the right decision, but I feel like they had their mind made up."

"I realized I wasn't going to win," Brady said of the protracted court procedure. "It's hard to beat 31 billionaires in court. I thought we gave it a great fight but in the end just dealing with the results of what the New York circuit judge decided. I decided to put that behind me and then move on to the next year."

Brady's response to his mother having cancer

While the 2016 season was ultimately a happy memory for Patriots fans, it was a difficult time for the Brady family. When asked what came to mind about the year, Maureen became emotional.

"That was a hard year," she recalled. "That was a really hard year. We had a lot going on with my mom and Tommy."

Galynn Brady was diagnosed with breast cancer and myeloma in 2016. She immediately began to receive treatment, which eventually meant a difficult period of chemotherapy.

Brady offered an introspective recollection from that time.

"I tried to remain poised and say, 'Don't worry, mom, we're going to get through it,'" said Brady. "And then I automatically — maybe it's a little bit of a toughening up that I've had, but maybe I'm not the most empathetic or sympathetic — I'm trying to solve it.

"I'm saying, 'Mom, come on, this is what we've got to do, we've got to send you to this person, or this person,'" Brady continued. "We're going to fix this."

Handling the 2016 suspension

Having to serve a four-game suspension at the outset of the 2016 season provided a stark change of pace for Brady.

"It was the first September that I'd had off since my eighth-grade year," Brady recalled. "I didn't even know what a September was like without football.

Brady said that he decided to go on vacation to Costa Rica to be with his wife.

"That was really good for our relationship," he said of the trip with Gisele Bündchen.

"A very small gesture like that allowed me to recognize the things that I need to do in our relationship to make sure that she feels supported too," said Brady, "because she'd supported me for the previous year and a half. She held me up when I was weak and angry and sad and depressed. That was a really dark time."

But after the brutal period of "Deflategate," the suspension that finally resulted from it was a positive moment.

"It actually worked out awesome for them," said Maureen. "He saw our family. We haven't had a family holiday together since he was at Michigan."

Watching Jimmy Garoppolo start the season at quarterback

Brady said he was working out while watching backup quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo and the Patriots play the Cardinals in the opening game of the 2016 season.