Preview: Giants face ultimate competitor Tom Brady

Defensive coordinator Patrick Graham devised the game plan and will call the defenses he hopes will suppress Tampa Bay's high-scoring offense (third in the NFL with an average of 31 points a game). Graham began his NFL coaching career in New England from 2009-15, a stretch in which Brady and the Patriots won the AFC East title all seven seasons, the conference championship twice and Super Bowl XLIX.

Given that experience, Graham was asked if it would have been more advantageous for the Giants had Brady thrown five touchdowns in a victory last week and not entered this game looking to make amends for an unsatisfactory performance in an unexpected defeat. Graham's response was, in essence: no way.

"I was around him for seven years, every week is different for him," Graham said. "I don't know anybody that's more competitive, more serious about the game and, on top of that, he's a great person. I mean, if they won by 20 touchdowns or if they lost, it doesn't matter. If he's playing the New York Giants on Monday night, that's where his focus is and it's laser focus. If you had a chance to be around him, it's laser focus, truly. To be around one of the best to ever play the game and just see that focus – I mean, I remember practicing against him – it just makes you have to raise your level as a coach because he'll take advantage. If you don't have it fixed, he's going to take advantage of it. I don't think that will play into it at all really, not with him at all, I don't think so."

When these teams met last season on a Monday night in MetLife Stadium, the Buccaneers had won two in a row and five of their previous six games. The Giants jumped out to a 14-6 halftime lead. But Brady threw second-half touchdowns to Ron Gronkowski and Mike Evans and when the Giants came up short on a late two-point conversion attempt, Tampa Bay won, 25-23.

"Tom's going to figure it out," Graham said. "I mean, you look back at the tape to try to have a reference point because, again, most of their offense is the same offense. They're the only team in the league to come back with all 22 starters. There are some different pieces, so you look back to have a reference point there, but each game is so different and Tom, B.A. (coach Bruce Arians), and (offensive coordinator Byron) Leftwich, they're all treating it as it's a different game.