Would the Saints have won the Super Bowl if Tom Brady signed in New Orleans?

Drew Brees, New Orleans and NFL legend, sure-fire Hall of Famer, decided to come back for one last rodeo with the Saints in 2020 to chase that elusive second Super Bowl. But what could have happened if he called it a career after the 2019 season?

The Saints were always going to stick with Brees if he decided to run it back. If Brees would return it was going to be in a Saints uniform or no uniform at all. And that's what ended up happening. An injury-plagued year season for Brees consisted of a torn rotator cuff, torn fascia, 11 broken ribs, and a collapsed lung, that only held him out four weeks. Brees recently said at a local golf tournament this summer that the only game he was feeling 100% healthy for was against the Detroit Lions. If Brees was healthy, there is no doubt the season could have looked a lot different, but at the end of the day, he was not.

So what could have happened if Brees stepped away and started his announcing career with NBC one season early. First off, who would have started at QB for New Orleans in 2020? A source inside the Saints building said that Tom Brady had a major interest in New Orleans if in fact Brees had retired.

ESPN reporter Jeff Darlington said on "Get Up" this Tuesday, "I think that people still underestimate how close Tom Brady was to signing with the New Orleans Saints up until he ultimately decided on the Bucs," Darlington said. "I know that that's gonna be a statement people try to question. It's the truth."

.@JeffDarlington takes a look at Tom Brady's comments about being snubbed by teams in free agency

Brady was keeping close tabs on New Orleans, but other teams such as the Las Vegas Raiders and Los Angels Chargers were in the race but pulled out late. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers since Day 1 were committed on Brady and once Brees said he was returning, Brady signed with the Buccaneers. Recently on the HBO show The Shop: Uninterrupted, Brady said "You're sticking with that motherf–ker?" - talking about a team choosing their current starter over him. It is unclear who that team was, but it's unlikely he was referring to New Orleans.