Bucs' O.J. Howard missed a Super Bowl season but gained so much more

TAMPA — The Achilles rupture required nine months to completely heal. The remedy for his heartbreak took just as long to develop.

But the timely arrival of his infant daughter may have been the only thing that helped O.J. Howard overcome the most bittersweet year of his life.

Now Howard is learning that he can play football and be a father at the same time, and neither game needs to suffer.

Howard was off to the best start of his career last season with 11 catches for 146 yards and two touchdowns. In fact, he helped spur a 21-point comeback against the Los Angeles Chargers in Week 4 with three receptions for 50 yards, including a touchdown.

But with 11:05 remaining in that Oct. 4 game and needing a touchdown to take the lead, Howard was the first option for Tom Brady on a slant route. Brady looked Howard's way but saw him stumble, then came back across the field and connected with rookie running back Ke'Shawn Vaughn for the go-ahead touchdown.

Howard tried to walk it off but couldn't.

"Tom was looking to throw me the ball. He looked at me when I came out of my cut," Howard said. "When I planted to cut on the slant, it felt like someone kicked me. I never fell to the ground. I put my hand on the ground to brace myself, and I never could get the sensation back in my foot. I was like, 'Man, somebody hit me really hard.'

"And that's when I remembered the Kobe Bryant interview, the Kevin Durant interview when those guys said (an Achilles tear) felt as if someone kicked them."

A blessing follows desolation

At 6-foot-6, 251 pounds, Howard had never really been hurt until he entered the NFL as the 19th overall pick in the 2017 draft by the Bucs. Before the Achilles injury, he had never had surgery of any kind.

An ankle injury put Howard on injured reserve the final two games of his rookie year. The next season, foot and ankle injuries cost him six games. In 2019, a hamstring strain following the bye cost him two games.

But with Brady's arrival, Howard recommitted himself to fitness and focus. He was among the first players to join Brady for throwing sessions in the spring at Berkeley Prep, and the two had instant chemistry on and off the field.

"I always worked hard my whole life, but (2020) was different," Howard said. "We were just locked in, because we were playing with the greatest quarterback ever, so everybody focused on ... trying to be the guy that wasn't going to be the issue. I can't give him a reason for him not to get me the ball. So I dialed in with him, I stayed here before practice and worked with him.

"We were starting to get a little feel for each other that L.A. (Chargers) game, and then I tore my Achilles. It was disappointing. It's the first time I really shed tears over the game because I literally saw all the work I put in. I know how hard it was. Working out at Berkeley ― all that stuff just went through my mind at one time. And in four games, it was gone through the drain."

But big blessings come in small packages, and Howard was about to discover how cradling something other than a football brings more joy on fall weekends.

"The good Lord will find a way, and he blessed me with a baby girl," Howard said. "She eased the whole pain."