Tampa Bay Buccaneers Odds & Betting Lines

Tampa Bay Buccaneers Odds, Bet Types, & Team History

All good things come to an end ... we think. Tom Brady retired "for good" following the 2022-23 NFL season.

It wasn't exactly a banner final season for Brady, as the Buccaneers struggled their way to an 8-9 record. They still won the NFC South – because the NFC South was abysmal – but were quickly eliminated by the Cowboys in the NFC Wild Card Round.

Now, the Buccaneers hand the reins to Baker Mayfield, who is coming off a weird season in which he played for the Panthers and Rams. The latter of those two stops was the most successful for the former Brown, and he was able to parlay that success into a one-year deal worth potentially $8.5 million.

Beyond the quarterback position, the Bucs had a fairly active offseason. They retained corner Jamel Dean and linebacker Lavonte David, and signed running back Chase Edmonds. Tampa's 2023 draft class is headlined by Pittsburgh interior defender Calijah Kancey, who was selected 19th overall.

Tampa Bay opens its season on the road in Minnesota on Sept. 10. The Bucs have a win total over/under of 6.5, which isn't great, but given the subpar nature of the NFC South, it's possible they can overachieve.

Betting on the Tampa Bay Buccaneers

Tampa Bay Buccaneers Point Spreads

Betting point spreads are wagers based on the expectation that a team will win or lose by a certain number of points. Here's an example:

Falcons +5.5 (+110)

Buccaneers -5.5 (-110)

In this situation, the Falcons are 5.5 point underdogs against the Buccaneers. If Tampa Bay wins the game by six or more points, a $100 wager on the Buccaneers would come with a payout of $90.91. If Atlanta won the game outright or lost by five points or fewer, the same $100 wager would net $110 plus the original $100 for a total of $210.

FAQ: Everything you need to know about point spreads

Tampa Bay Buccaneers Over/Unders aka Bucs Totals

Over/under, also called point total, is a wager placed on the combined scoring of a single game. Bookmakers come up with a number and you can either bet the over or — you guessed it — the under. Here's how it works: