At the MFA, artist posters call out COVID's uneven toll

The poster is part of Weems's "RESIST COVID/ TAKE 6′′ project, a new campaign designed to call public awareness to COVID's disproportionate toll.

It features a black-and-white photo, taken from contemporary artist Carrie Mae Weems's 2016 "All the Boys" series, that shows a Black man in a hoodie. His face is out of focus and his eyes shadowy, but he's clearly looking at the camera. At us. Overlaying the image is bold-face text: "Because of inequity, Black, brown and Native people have been the most impacted by COVID-19! THIS MUST BE CHANGED!!!"

A message that was posted Sunday outside the Museum of Fine Arts is blurry yet blunt.

"Inside the MFA, we have bumper stickers, buttons," said MFA senior photography curator Kristen Gresh via phone last week. "When people take a bumper sticker and put it on their car, they're distributing the message. We want this to go past the MFA."

"RESIST" posters, fliers, and digital banners can already be seen at banks, hospitals, and libraries all over Boston. Meanwhile, the campaign is also popping up in conjunction with arts organizations in New York, Detroit, Dallas, Los Angeles, Chicago, and Philadelphia.

"We're one part of a bigger — global — movement," added Edward Saywell, chair of the MFA's Prints and Drawings department.

One of Weems's posters is displayed on the MFA's Huntington Avenue lawn. The campaign is also popping up in conjunction with arts organizations in New York, Detroit, Dallas, Los Angeles, Chicago, and Philadelphia. David L. Ryan/Globe Staff

Syracuse-based Weems started working on the project soon after the lockdowns began last year, approaching the MFA with the final product in December. But deciding how, exactly, the museum would take part in Weems's multi-city campaign took a little time. Gresh, Saywell, and other curators pored over the "RESIST" lookbook, featuring a series of photos and phrases participating institutions could choose to display.

"We ended up choosing a photo from 'All The Boys,' because its message is to get the viewer to think about all the deaths at the hands of the police," Gresh said. "So the poster is really a double message: The systemic violence and racism needs to be changed, and the disproportionate impact of COVID on Black and brown and Indigenous communities needs to be changed."