Is Sean Payton endorsing Jameis Winston as New Orleans Saints QB in 2021?

The New Orleans Saints have a big decision to make at quarterback for 2021, and head coach Sean Payton seems bullish on Jameis Winston as the man under center.

Payton spoke out Wednesday about Winston's potential future in New Orleans, implying the former No. 1 overall pick is firmly in the mix for the Saints' starting QB gig in 2021 if Drew Brees retires as he's expected to.

Sean Payton: 'Big interest' in Jameis Winston

Luke Johnson of the New Orleans Advocate documented what Payton had to say in an interview with NFL Network's Kay Adams about Winston and the future of the Saints' quarterback position:

Sean Payton went on Good Morning Football and chatted, among other things, about the Saints' plan at QB if/when Drew Brees retires.

Payton has also used any excuse he can to get Taysom Hill on the field, and it was Hill who actually started over Winston during the 2020 campaign when Brees was out for an extended period of time due to injury.

After going 3-1 as a starter, Hill ceded the reins back to Brees and reverted to his usual playmaker role at tight end.

As Payton said in Wednesday's interview, though, Winston didn't have the benefit of being in New Orleans' offense for multiple years like Hill did. Winston joined the Saints on a one-year contract and was further hindered by the lack of an offseason, training camp and preseason to get prepared.

These circumstances suggest if Winston returns in 2021, not only could he compete with Hill for the starting gig — he could win it outright and change the trajectory of his career.

Sean Payton was incredible. Fantastic spot. Lotta great stuff.

Payton has fervently backed Hill as the potential QB of the future, yet his glowing remarks about Winston suggest the narrative as to who Brees' successor will be is changing.

Can Jameis Winston be a successful long-term QB?

Winston has flashed the ability to be a top-tier quarterback throughout his NFL career, yet the last time he got extensive action was in 2019 with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Although he threw for over 5,000 yards, he also tossed an NFL-record 30 interceptions as the Bucs went 7-9.