Full National Impact of 2nd Trump Impeachment Could Take Decades to Unpack

Donald Trump's status as the only U.S. president to be impeached twice may be his most lasting legacy — one that is far different than how he might have been remembered prior to the insurrection at the U.S. Capitol January 6 by his supporters.

Presidential historian Barbara Perry says that despite Trump's reputation for norm-breaking, racism and online bullying, the former president fulfilled many of the main promises he made on the campaign trail in 2016.

"Maybe more than most presidents, he made good on his promises," says Perry, director of presidential studies at the University of Virginia's Miller Center.

"He lowered taxes on the wealthy. He limited and reduced federal regulations. He put conservatives — to the tune of over 200 federal judges — on the lower federal courts and three conservative members of the U.S. Supreme Court. He engaged in strong-arm tactics against China. He built part of his wall on the southern border and attempted to reduce, and succeeded in reducing, illegal immigration."

Forecasting how historians will perceive and treat the 45th president decades from now is a risky endeavor. Perspectives change over time. Yet Perry and other students of politics agree that Trump's trial for inciting insurrection, which begins this week, will likely obscure or taint the most notable accomplishments achieved during his presidency.

One of his primary distinctions in the history books could be as the only president ever to be formally accused of, and tried for, fomenting rebellion against the government he led.

Historic proceeding

The U.S. House of Representatives impeached the 74-year-old former president on January 13, charging him with inciting insurrection during an impassioned speech January 6 to supporters before the assault on the Capitol.

Trump's followers wanted to stop a joint session of Congress from certifying Joe Biden's November 2020 election victory. Among the rioters were members of right-wing groups that embrace theories associated with white supremacy.

"It's a black mark on his record, and if he gets convicted, it's a serious black mark," says Susan Low Bloch, professor of constitutional law at Georgetown University Law Center. "It'll have a huge significance on his life because he won't be able to run again. It'll have significance for his followers because they won't be able to vote for him. And I think it'll be a warning to future government officials not to engage in insurrections."