Six takeaways from Trump's impeachment trial

CNN — After a brief Saturday morning surprise, when it appeared former President Donald Trump's unprecedented second impeachment trial could feature witnesses and drag on perhaps for weeks, senators rallied around the idea of wrapping things up instead and soon voted to acquit the former president.

The vote was 43 not guilty to 57 guilty, short of the 67 guilty votes needed to convict. Trump has now been acquitted of inciting a riotous mob to attack the Capitol on January 6, an episode that interrupted the final tally of Electoral College votes that sealed Joe Biden's victory in the 2020 presidential election.

Here are six takeaways from Trump's history-making trial:

Offered an opening, Democrats let Trump off

House Democrats forced Trump's second impeachment, presenting a compelling case that he incited an attack on the Capitol, and driving a wedge between Republicans willing to look the other way versus those abhorred by Trump's behavior.

On Saturday morning, after CNN's Jamie Gangel reported shocking new details about Trump's behavior on January 6, Democrats found themselves on the cusp of demanding true accountability. They were joined by five Republicans in an effort to call witnesses – especially Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler, the Washington Republican who has been instrumental in calling out the Trump defense team's counterfactual claim that Trump opposed the rioters rather than cheering them.

Finding enough Republicans to convict Trump was still going to be a high bar and the Democrats would have had to offer Republicans a chance to call their own witness. But rather than push ahead and exploit the opening, Democrats decided to enter a written statement from Herrera Beutler into the record, allowing the impeachment trial to proceed toward Trump's expected acquittal.

Having the trial over will help Biden get down to business. But it will leave Americans who hoped Trump could be blocked from future political office wondering what might have been if Democrats had been a little more ruthless in their protection of the Constitution.

The GOP is still Trump's party

Trump once quipped that he could shoot someone on Fifth Avenue and not lose any voters. (His lawyers subsequently pushed a claim in court that, as president, Trump couldn't be charged for doing that, either.) It turns out that he could also dispatch a riotous mob up Pennsylvania Avenue to attack the US Capitol – with his own vice president inside – and most Republican senators would stick by him.

Seven Republican senators voted that Trump was guilty of incitement, but most Republicans argued that the trial itself was unconstitutional because Trump was no longer president, saying that fact trumped any evidence presented during the trial.

In moments of frustration with the GOP, Trump has mused about starting his own political party, but it doesn't seem he needs to. When his lawyers manufactured an alternate reality in which he was calling for peace as rioters sacked the Capitol, the Republicans who were among those targeted by the mob grasped at the lifeline. That they could watch video of Mike Pence's evacuation and Utah Sen. Mitt Romney's near-miss with rioters alongside Trump's words leading up to the riot and then vote to acquit him is just the latest evidence that Trump's sway over the party is far from diminished.