Cheney ousted from leadership post. The other 9 Republicans who voted to impeach Trump have also faced a backlash.

CNN — House Republicans ousted Rep. Liz Cheney of Wyoming on Wednesday from her leadership post as conference chair after she repeatedly called out former President Donald Trump's "Big Lie" that the 2020 election was stolen.

The move sends a high-profile message about the Republican Party's priorities, its ongoing loyalty to the former President and the limited extent to which it is willing to tolerate dissent even after Trump's election lies incited a deadly attack on the US Capitol.

Prior to losing her leadership role, Cheney was the No. 3 House Republican and the highest-ranking of the 10 House Republicans who voted to impeach Trump for inciting an insurrection on January 6 when a violent pro-Trump mob stormed the Capitol. The other nine House Republicans have also faced a backlash, including the threat of primary challenges over their impeachment votes as well as censure and calls for their resignation by state and local Republican groups.

Some of the 10 House Republicans who voted to impeach, most notably Cheney and Rep. Adam Kinzinger of Illinois, have continued to speak out about the "Big Lie" and the future of the Republican Party now that Trump is no longer in office. Others have taken a much lower profile approach since the impeachment vote, not frequently commenting publicly, if at all, on the direction the party is taking in the aftermath of the Trump presidency.

Here's a (non-exhaustive) look at what has happened to the nine other House Republicans since they voted to impeach and the extent to which they have continued to speak out about the deep divisions within the party in the aftermath of January 6:

Adam Kinzinger of Illinois

Adam Kinzinger has been in the national spotlight often since his impeachment vote as a leading critic of the Republican Party's embrace of Trump's "Big Lie" and other conspiracy theories. Kinzinger has spoken out in support of Cheney and criticized the GOP over the push to remove her from leadership.

"You cannot unite with lies, if somebody is going to use lies to gain power and say, 'let's have unity,' you can't do it," Kinzinger said at an event earlier this week. "'We need to remove Liz Cheney because she makes me have to answer questions that I know are false.' That's what they're saying."

Kinzinger said at the event that House GOP leader Kevin McCarthy and Whip Steve Scalise "decided that winning the next election was more important than a clear-eyed recognition of what happened on January 6."

"That was a lie that led to violence," he said.

The Illinois Republican recently launched a political action committee as part of an effort he's calling "Country First" that seeks to counter the GOP's embrace of conspiracy theories and the former President. The congressman has endorsed the nine other House Republicans who voted to impeach over the Capitol attack as they now face down the potential threat of primary challenges.

He also recently endorsed a Texas GOP congressional candidate, Michael Wood, who ran unsuccessfully in a crowded field on a platform calling for Republicans to turn away from Trump and reject conspiracy theories.

"I think what's important is that people see there are people out there that support you, that will back you if you do the right thing," Kinzinger told CNN of the endorsement. "It's a long-term battle for the soul of the party."

Kinzinger has been censured by several county GOP organizations in Illinois and drawn a pro-Trump primary challenger, Catalina Lauf, who has said she is running against him, arguing that he "betrayed his constituents" and criticizing his impeachment vote.

John Katko of New York

John Katko has faced criticism from local GOP leaders in his home state of New York as a result of his impeachment vote.

In the run-up to the vote to oust Cheney, Katko said that if there was a vacancy for the leadership post of House GOP conference chair he would support GOP Rep. Elise Stefanik, another New York lawmaker who now appears poised to be elevated to the position.

"I have every confidence that Elise will be a superb leader for all of our conference, not just some," Katko told The Auburn Citizen, though he also called Cheney "a good friend."

The congressman has stood by his impeachment vote, telling CNN in February, "Hell no," when asked if he had any regrets over the vote to impeach Trump.

Fred Upton of Michigan

Fred Upton has also faced rebukes from Republicans at the state level following his impeachment vote.

Back in his home state of Michigan, the Allegan County Republican Party censured Upton for his vote, saying that he betrayed his "oath of office and core values" of the county party.

The Cass County Republican Party also censured the congressman over the impeachment vote.