How Sen. William Blount set a precedent for an impeachment trial after Trump leaves office

With so many constitutional questions swirling around the unusual situation of starting an impeachment trial after President Donald Trump leaves office, a look back in history — way back — shows precedent for just that.

With Trump impeached by the House, a new president assuming office and a Senate trial still to come, the name of Knoxville's William Blount has come back into the spotlight. He has the distinction of being a senator who was impeached and tried after being expelled from office, providing at least some historic clues about trying Trump after he leaves Washington.

It's not a perfect match, historians said. Trump was impeached for a second time while he was still in office and Blount was impeached after he had already been expelled by the Senate, but the timing has historic parallels.

William Blount's mess

A native of North Carolina, Blount was an original signer of the U.S. Constitution and a Revolutionary War veteran. In 1790, President George Washington named him governor of the newly formed Tennessee Territory and he made his headquarters in Knoxville. When Tennessee joined the union in 1796, Blount was selected as one of the state's first two U.S. senators.

The fun ended soon after.

The next year, according to Senate records, Blount was in dire financial straits and he devised a plan using native people and frontiersmen to attack Spanish Florida and Louisiana in order to transfer those territories to Great Britain. The plan – and a handwritten letter detailing it – ended up in the hands of President John Adams who asked the legislature to handle it. It became the Senate's first impeachment case.

So, what does this early impeachment say about Trump's current situation? Legal experts and historians point to two things. One, again, it allows for an officeholder to be tried once they leave. More relevantly, it shows an impeachment doesn't mean the end of an official's political career.

Tried after being expelled

Members of the House informed the Senate – and a special committee looking into Blount – that they planned to impeach the Tennessean. Soon after, the Senate voted 25-1 to remove him.

The House went on to impeach but Blount was never convicted. His case was rejected in the Senate on jurisdictional grounds, George Washington University law professor Jonathan Turley said. And this kind of trial of a former legislator would be considered inappropriate today, he said.

History spotlight: Fingerprints shine a light on the slaves who built Blount Mansion — and Tennessee

Blount didn't even show up for the trial, having already made it back to Tennessee where there was no pressure for him to return. When the Senate sent someone to get him to bring him back to the Capitol (then in Philadelphia), he refused.

Lincoln Memorial University constitutional law professor and Blount Mansion board member Stewart Harris said Blount shows that an impeachment trial timeline doesn't matter. The Senate can do what the Senate wants to do, he said.

But, he added, the Senate might not want to drag its feet before beginning any sort of trial.

"I think in terms of politics it might be better for the Senate to do it rather expeditiously and get it over with while the memories of the insurrection at the Capitol are fresh and while Trump's term has just recently concluded," he said. "People might consider (holding an impeachment trial) more acceptable to do it at that point.

"If they wait a year, the politics might shift," he continued. "But constitutionally speaking, they can do whatever they want to."

Political future after impeachment

Some of the supporters of Trump's impeachment have reasoned that convicting him and then immediately turning to disqualify him from future federal office would create a situation where he doesn't return. Impeachment requires support of two-thirds of the Senate, that is 67 votes, while banning him would only take a majority.

Blount's case is no help with this theory. He was tried after being removed from office, but he was never convicted.