Pa. Republicans rebuke Pat Toomey over Trump impeachment vote — but don't censure him

Sen. Pat Toomey (R., Pa.) on Capitol Hill in Washington on the last day of former President Donald Trump's second Senate impeachment trial. Toomey was one of seven Republicans who voted to convict Trump. Read more

Pennsylvania Republicans have voted to rebuke Sen. Pat Toomey but stopped short of a formal censure, two weeks after Toomey was one of just seven Republicans who voted to convict Donald Trump in the former president's impeachment trial.

The narrow GOP vote Monday, after technical problems derailed the effort last week, crystallized some of the anger at Toomey and reflected Trump's tight grip as he positions himself as the party's dominant force in the coming years.

But it also showed fissures, as some Trump supporters were left furious that the party didn't approve a censure of Toomey.

"We are outraged that Senator Toomey took part in an impeachment process that facilitated Democrats' tireless obsession with partisan political retribution," read a statement approved by the Pennsylvania Republican Party in a vote of state committee members. The statement was one of two options they voted on; the other included a formal censure of Toomey.

The Inquirer obtained copies of the two competing statements Republicans voted on and the final tally, though they were not made public or released as of late Tuesday afternoon. The state GOP's Twitter account has been dormant since Feb. 13, when it posted a statement from chairman Lawrence Tabas expressing "disappointment" in Toomey's impeachment vote.

Toomey's office declined to comment on the vote to rebuke the senator.

"Democrats used impeachment as a political weapon, which set a dangerous precedent in America, and Senator Toomey did not stand in their way," the winning GOP statement said. "We oppose the Senator's actions in the strongest terms, but we have faith that the voters will properly address public officials who do not satisfactorily represent the best interests of this nation."

The statement instead went on to take the unusual step of censuring four Pennsylvania Democrats: Gov. Tom Wolf, Attorney General Josh Shapiro, former Secretary of State Kathy Boockvar, and former Health Secretary Rachel Levine, criticizing their handling of the 2020 election, the response to the coronavirus, and other matters.

"This body has concluded that censure action should be reserved for those who work every day to destroy the most exceptional nation in the world," the Republican statement said in targeting the Democrats.

While the censures and admonitions are symbolic, especially since Toomey isn't seeking reelection, it was especially unusual for the GOP to censure Democrats, who would have no reason to expect support from the Republican political apparatus.

Pennsylvania Democrats saw the Republican message as an opening.

"With tonight's vote to rebuke Senator Toomey, Pennsylvania Republicans have sent a loud and clear message: they are the party of Donald Trump, QAnon, anti-American extremists and the Big Lie — and dissent will never be tolerated," state Democratic Party chairwoman Nancy Patton Mills said in a statement. "If you are turned off by the chaos and extremism of the GOP, we invite you to join our fight for a better Pennsylvania."

Inside the Pennsylvania Republican Party, the vote against Toomey, a staunch fiscal conservative who voted with Trump about 85% of the time, sent a signal about the GOP's outlook as it faces Trump's defeat and competitive races for governor and Senate in 2022.

The vote was 128-124 in favor of a statement that did not censure Toomey, with 13 abstentions. Party members had to choose between one statement that censured Toomey and one that admonished him. Both versions included a censure of Democrats. There was no option for voting against criticizing Toomey.

Some Republicans were furious that the party didn't go as far in punishing Toomey as state parties did in North Carolina and Louisiana, where GOP senators also voted to convict.