This week: Democrats barrel toward Trump impeachment after Capitol attack

House Democrats are driving toward impeaching President Trump for a second time after supporters of the president sacked the Capitol.

Tensions are running high as lawmakers prepare to return to a tumultuous, frayed Washington just days after a violent mob breached the Capitol, forcing lawmakers to go into lockdown and resulting in the deaths of five people.

The House and Senate had been expected to leave town until Jan. 19, a day before President-elect Joe Biden is sworn in. But the House is poised to return this week as lawmakers itch to respond to Trump, who encouraged his supporters to march on the Capitol as Vice President Pence and lawmakers were formally tallying Biden's Electoral College win.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) laid out the path forward for Democrats in a "Dear Colleague" letter on Sunday night.

"In protecting our Constitution and our Democracy, we will act with urgency, because this President represents an imminent threat to both," Pelosi wrote. "As the days go by, the horror of the ongoing assault on our democracy perpetrated by this President is intensified and so is the immediate need for action."

Pelosi, who was personally targeted by some members of the pro-Trump mob in Wednesday's insurrection, said Democrats will try to adopt Maryland Democratic Rep. Jamie Raskin's 25th Amendment resolution on Monday by unanimous consent — a gambit sure to be blocked by Trump's conservative allies.

If that fails, Democrats will bring it to the floor on Tuesday as they try to push for Pence, who was also a target for the rioters, to respond within 24 hours. Democrats, and some Republicans, are supportive of Pence invoking the 25th Amendment, which would allow the VP and a majority of the Cabinet to sideline Trump.

Pelosi and Senate Minority Leader Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) called Pence to discuss the issue late last week, where Schumer said they were put on hold for more than 20 minutes. They ultimately didn't connect with Pence.

Pelosi didn't say in her letter when the House would vote on impeaching Trump, but aides are expecting a vote as soon as Wednesday, likely on a single article. Language drafted by Reps. Raskin, David Cicilline (R.I.) and Ted Lieu (Calif.) charges Trump with high crimes and misdemeanors for "willfully inciting violence against the Government of the United States."

Trump would be the first president to be impeached more than once.

As of late Sunday afternoon Cicilline said he had 210 co-sponsors.

If the House votes to impeach Trump — which would mark the second time of his presidency — when Democrats would send the articles to the Senate is unclear, and could have implications for how quickly Congress can act on Biden's agenda.

Outgoing Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) warned in a memo to lawmakers over the weekend that an impeachment trial is unlikely to start before Biden is sworn in, meaning a trial could bog down the ability to confirm Biden's Cabinet and take up other early legislation.

Biden hasn't weighed in on the impeachment talk publicly, saying that it was a decision for Congress.

"What the Congress decides to do is for them to decide, but I'm going to have to — and they're going to have to be ready to hit the ground running," Biden said. "Because when [Vice President-elect Kamala Harris] and I are sworn in we're going to be introducing immediately significant pieces of legislation to deal with the virus, to deal with the economy and deal with economic growth."

He added that the quickest way to get Trump out of office was for him to be sworn in on Jan. 20.

Democrats will control the Senate after the 20th but they would still need significant support from Republicans to vote to convict Trump. Sen. Ben Sasse (R-Neb.) has said he is open to articles of impeachment from the House.