Meghan McCain supports former President Donald Trump's impeachment

Meghan McCain is backing the impeachment of former President Donald Trump even while saying she would die fighting for the Republican Party.

The House's article of impeachment accuses Trump of "incitement of insurrection" in connection with the Jan. 6 storming of the U.S. Capitol. The Senate trial is expected to get underway next month.

"I cannot defend this. I believe President Trump should be impeached," said McCain, a co-host of ABC-TV's "The View" and the daughter of the late Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. "I believe we have to take a stand and have a fine line about what is acceptable for a president to do or not. He incited a riot, people got violent, people died. Full stop."

McCain's commentary on the state of the GOP started Tuesday when her "View" co-host Whoopi Goldberg asked if she still feels she belongs in the Republican Party or if she felt it was time to change parties.

"I'll die fighting for it. I mean, I'm a lifelong conservative, unlike a lot of these heretics," McCain said. "I mean, I was born into this, raised into it, it's my whole entire life in all ways and truly at the bottom of my soul, I think as all of you know, I believe in the principles I was raised on."

McCain said part of the problem is the older age of Republican members of Congress.

"You've got a bunch of old people right now on Capitol Hill, people in their 70s and 80s, who don't really care about the future of the Republican Party," she said.

There's no love lost between the McCain family and Trump.

Trump and John McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential nominee, carried on a high-profile public feud up until McCain's 2018 death at age 81; Trump continued to disparage McCain even after he died.

Cindy McCain, McCain's widow and Meghan McCain's mother, endorsed President Joe Biden over Trump in last year's presidential election. With her help, Biden became the first Democrat to carry the state since President Bill Clinton did in 1996 and only the second since President Harry Truman in 1948. The Arizona Republican Party on Saturday formally censured Cindy McCain and former Sen. Jeff Flake, another Arizona Republican who endorsed Biden.

Still, McCain defended some Trump supporters from comments made by veteran broadcaster Katie Couric.

Couric, who is set to guest host the TV game show "Jeopardy!", said that those in "the cult of Trump" need to be deprogrammed, The Hill reported.

McCain objected to the notion that anybody who voted for Trump is "irredeemable."

"If we're all just deplorable and need to be deprogrammed as Katie Couric said, then honestly they can go to hell because I don't need to be deprogrammed," McCain said.