In Conversation: Michael Guest talks Trump, impeachment and Marjorie Taylor Greene

JACKSON, Miss. (WLBT) - In the past three months, the country has seen an election, an attempted insurrection at the United States Capitol, an inauguration and an impeachment.

For many congressmen and women, the last three months have also been the most consequential of their political lives, first on their vote to certify the election results and then choosing whether to vote to impeach Donald Trump for a second time.

Republican Representative Michael Guest of Mississippi's District 3 has faced both criticism and praise for his decisions in the past month. We sat down with the congressman through Zoom to ask him about those decisions, how he came to them and his thoughts on the the current controversy surrounding Georgia representative Marjorie Taylor Greene.

This conversation has been edited for both length and clarity

MG: "I think as we look over the last three months, we see that that was a period unlike any time in modern United States history. We saw a very contested presidential race, a race that was not decided on Election Night--a race that was not decided for days, almost weeks later. And there was a great deal of animosity on both sides during that race. Because of some issues with the presidential election, we saw election contests filed in court, state courts, federal courts. We saw challenges to the certification of the election in Washington, D.C. We saw on the day, of course, as everyone recalls, the riots that occurred here in Washington, D.C. We saw actually the business of the American people interrupted as protesters entered into the House chambers and then we saw a second impeachment of President Donald Trump. There have been many challenges that we have faced over the last three months, over the last year. We have also seen some events that we will never see again in our lifetime."

MG: "I thought that there were voter irregularities, that there was probably voter fraud. Being a former prosecutor, I have prosecuted cases of voter fraud. But we were never presented evidence to show that the voter irregularity, the voter fraud was substantial enough that the elections should be overturned. I think everyone, Republicans and Democrats, if you were to ask them, probably would tell you that there was voter fraud, that there was voter irregularity. I think that we may disagree on the scale or the scope of that, but there was never evidence presented by the President, by the administration, by his campaign team that showed me that there was enough voter fraud that the election should be overturned. Now I did vote to challenge two of the states that were brought up and I did not vote to challenge those states based on election fraud or election irregularity. I believe that the will of the legislature was violated by the court system and, in Pennsylvania, by the Secretary of State. I felt like the will of the people in those states, that should have followed their legislative laws set forth by each state, were not followed and so those were the rationales that I took in voting against certifying both of those states. Not the fact that I thought there was widespread voter fraud or widespread voter misconduct in either Arizona or Pennsylvania."