Takeaways from Trump's second impeachment trial acquittal

Seven Republicans supported conviction: Sens. Richard Burr (N.C.), Bill Cassidy (La.), Susan Collins (Maine), Lisa Murkowski (Alaska), Mitt Romney (Utah), Ben Sasse (Neb.) and Patrick J. Toomey (Pa.). Only once before had even one member of a president's party voted to convict: Romney voted to convict in Trump's previous impeachment trial.

Notably, the number of GOP votes for conviction was larger than the previous number in support of proceeding with the trial. In total, 17 Republicans voted either to impeach Trump or convict him during these proceedings — with both the 10 House impeachment votes and the seven conviction votes being unprecedented.

But Cassidy's vote might be the most significant. Burr and Toomey are retiring, and the others have been high-profile critics of Trump. Cassidy comes from one of the most conservative states in the country. Even his vote to proceed with the trial last week — after he previously voted that the trial was unconstitutional — led to predictions that he would eventually fall in line. As with several other Republicans, he risked a great deal to vote as he did.

One key vote the House impeachment managers did not get was that of another senator who had expressed openness to conviction: Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.). McConnell suggested in a speech after the vote that he indeed blamed Trump, saying, "President Trump is practically and morally responsible for provoking the events of the day." But he said Trump's status as former president rendered the issues at hand moot.

Given the historically bipartisan votes, though, you have to wonder whether, had McConnell decided to press the issue, he could have assembled enough votes for a conviction.

It probably never would have happened, but it was closer than most predicted.

2. The Democrats' back-down

As the trial began on Tuesday, a disconnect emerged. Democrats said this situation was vitally important — so important that they needed to impeach Trump for the second time and then, for the first time in history, hold a Senate trial for a former president — yet they didn't plan to call any witnesses to unearth new evidence.

For a brief period Saturday, given that several huge questions remained unresolved, it appeared they were reversing course. They called for a subpoena of Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-Wash.) to describe Trump's phone call with House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) during the Capitol riot.

Then they backed off. A deal was cut under which Beutler's statement suggesting Trump had spoken approvingly of the Capitol rioters in real time would be entered into the trial record, and no witnesses would be called.

It's easy to call this a cave. As many noted, Democrats seemed to have the votes for witnesses, with several Republicans voting with them on the broader question of whether to allow witnesses. Enough Republicans appeared to be on board and conviction-curious to hear from the likes of Herrera Beutler and others. Trump's lawyers could have requested all the witnesses they wanted — and they threatened to call hundreds — but each would have required a vote. Democrats held the cards.

And then they laid down their hand.