GOP's Thune says Trump allies engaging in 'cancel culture'

PIERRE, S.D. (AP) — U.S. Sen. John Thune is criticizing Republican activists and party leaders for engaging in "cancel culture" by rushing to censure GOP senators who found former President Donald Trump guilty of inciting an insurrection.

In his first interview since he voted to acquit Trump, the Senate's No. 2 Republican on Thursday defended fellow Republicans who sided with Democrats on the "vote of conscience" and warned against shutting out dissenting voices in the party. He also discussed Republicans' priorities under President Joe Biden, the proposed $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package and upcoming primary battles within his own party.

"There was a strong case made," Thune said of the Democrats' impeachment presentation last week. "People could come to different conclusions. If we're going to criticize the media and the left for cancel culture, we can't be doing that ourselves."

Thune's remarks were his first explaining his vote in Trump's trial and assessing the turbulent GOP politics the former president has left behind. Thune, who faces reelection next year, is among several establishment Republicans grappling with how to reclaim control of a party dominated by Trump for years.

The senator rarely criticized Trump while he was in office, but he called the former president's post-election actions "inexcusable" and accused him of undermining the peaceful transfer of power.

Still, Thune sided with most Republican senators and GOP Senate leader Mitch McConnell in voting to acquit. Thune and others argued that Trump could not be impeached because he was already out of office. Democrats fell 10 votes short of the 67 need to convict.

Since then, Trump has lashed out at McConnell and repeated the baseless claim that he won the election. The comments have inflamed a feud that is likely to play out in GOP primaries between Trump-backed candidates and those supported by the establishment wing.

Thune suggested he would be taking steps to assist candidates "who don't go off and talk about conspiracies and that sort of thing." He praised Rep. Liz Cheney — a Wyoming Republican, who was censured by the Wyoming GOP for voting to impeach Trump — for doing an "exceptional job on most issues," and said he was ready to jump into primary battles like the one she is sure to face.

"At the grassroots level, there's a lot of people who want to see Trump-like candidates," he said. "But I think we're going to be looking for candidates that are electable."

Despite the escalating fight over control of the GOP, Thune said he believes Republicans are well-positioned to take back the Senate, citing policy overreach by the Democrats.