Trump loses social media megaphone – DW – 01

The outgoing US president has been "indefinitely" banned from Facebook and is temporarily banned from tweeting to his over 88 million followers after a night of violence in Washington.

Social media giants Twitter, Facebook and its subsidiary Instagram announced they were suspending US President Donald Trump's accounts on Thursday in an unprecedented move against the president's favored way to address the public. Trump's account was also indefinitely disabled on Twitch, a US live and streaming service that belongs to Amazon.

The bans came as pro-Trump supporters stormed the US Capitol building in Washington DC. The riot interrupted a joint congressional session to confirm President-elect Joe Biden's election victory.

What led to the ban?

Trump posted a video on Twitter and Facebook more than two hours after protesters entered the Capitol and as authorities struggled to take control of the situation.

Trump opened his video saying, "I know your pain. I know your hurt. But you have to go home now."

He repeated claims of voter fraud in the video. He also appealed to his supporters, saying "We don't want anybody hurt," adding: "We can't play into the hands of these people."

Directly addressing his supporters in the video, he said: "We love you, you're very special."

Republican lawmakers and previous administration officials had reportedly begged Trump to call on his supporters to quell the violence.

'This is the worst day for this country' To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video

How did Facebook respond?

Facebook said it was "indefinitely" banning Trump's accounts, including on Instagram, according to a post by founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg.

"Over the last several years, we have allowed President Trump to use our platform consistent with our own rules, at times removing content or labeling his posts when they violate our policies. We did this because we believe that the public has a right to the broadest possible access to political speech, even controversial speech. But the current context is now fundamentally different, involving use of our platform to incite violent insurrection against a democratically elected government," Zuckerberg wrote.

"We believe the risks of allowing the President to continue to use our service during this period are simply too great. Therefore, we are extending the block we have placed on his Facebook and Instagram accounts indefinitely and for at least the next two weeks until the peaceful transition of power is complete."

Facebook earlier removed Trump's video. Guy Rosen, Facebook's vice president of integrity, said on Twitter Wednesday that the video was removed because it "contributes to rather than diminishes the risk of ongoing violence."

"This is an emergency situation and we are taking appropriate emergency measures, including removing President Trump's video," Rosen said.

Facebook also removed a text post from Trump, which sought to justify the attack, telling supporters to "remember this day forever!"

How did Twitter respond?

Following the video upload, Twitter locked Trump out of his account for 12 hours. The Twitter Safety account cited "repeated and severe violations of our Civic Integrity policy."

The company required the removal of three of Trump's tweets, including the video, and warned: "If the Tweets are not removed, the account will remain locked."

Trump's account has since deleted those posts, Twitter said.

It said further violations of Twitter rules would result in permanent suspension.