Facebook suspends Donald Trump for two years, citing 'severe violation' after Capitol riots

Trump's suspension would end in time for the 2024 election cycle.

Trump condemned the decision, adding 'no more dinners' with the Zuckerbergs if he is re-elected.

The Biden White House said it's 'pretty unlikely that the zebra is going to change his stripes.'

Facebook suspended former President Donald Trump for two years but ending just in time for him to possibly regain his powerful social media megaphone in the 2024 election cycle.

After that period, Facebook said it would consult experts to determine whether "the risk to public safety has receded," and make a call on Trump's return.

But Facebook warned that Trump's Facebook and Instagram, if reinstated, would face a "strict set of rapidly escalating sanctions" if he violates the company's rules again after being reinstated on Jan. 7, 2023.

Trump's accounts on Facebook and Instagram were frozen the day after the attack on the U.S. Capitol for his praise of supporters who stormed it, Facebook said.

"When the suspension is eventually lifted, there will be a strict set of rapidly escalating sanctions that will be triggered if Mr. Trump commits further violations in future, up to and including permanent removal of his pages and accounts," Facebook's vice president of global affairs and communications Nick Clegg said Friday.

Trump ban hurts fundraising: Trump's two-year Facebook ban to limit his fundraising ability for 2022 Republican candidates

Facebook after Trump suspension: Political speech of world leaders will get less preferential treatment

As part of Friday's announcement, Facebook said it would no longer grant politicians and other public figures special exemptions from its content policies after the social media giant faced a firestorm of criticism for being unclear on how and why it treats the speech of world leaders differently from any other user.

Public figures who foment violence during periods of civil unrest could face penalties ranging from one-month to two-year suspensions, the company said.

"Given the gravity of the circumstances that led to Mr. Trump's suspension, we believe his actions constituted a severe violation of our rules which merit the highest penalty available under the new enforcement protocols," Clegg said.

Trump vents at Facebook, calls decision 'an insult'

The former president condemned Facebook's decision.