Trump accounts on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram frozen after storming of U.S. Capitol

It took a violent insurrection at the U.S. Capitol, fuelled by years of false statements, conspiracy theories and violent rhetoric, for social media giants Twitter and Facebook to bar President Donald Trump from addressing his vast audiences on their platforms.

On Wednesday, in an unprecedented step, the two companies temporarily suspended Trump from posting to their platforms after a mob of his supporters stormed the house of Congress.

It was the most aggressive action either company has yet taken against Trump, who more than a decade ago embraced the immediacy and scale of Twitter to rally loyalists, castigate enemies and spread false rumours.

Twitter locked Trump out of his account for 12 hours and said that future violations could result in a permanent suspension. The company required the removal of three of Trump's tweets, including a short video in which he urged those supporters to "go home" while also repeating falsehoods about the integrity of the presidential election. Trump's account deleted those posts, Twitter said; had they remained, Twitter had threatened to extend his suspension.

This means that the account of @realDonaldTrump will be locked for 12 hours following the removal of these Tweets. If the Tweets are not removed, the account will remain locked. —@TwitterSafety Our public interest policy — which has guided our enforcement action in this area for years — ends where we believe the risk of harm is higher and/or more severe. —@TwitterSafety

Facebook and Instagram, which Facebook owns, followed up in the evening, announcing that Trump wouldn't be able to post for 24 hours following two violations of its policies. The White House did not immediately offer a response to the actions.

While some cheered the platforms' response, experts noted that these actions follow years of hemming and hawing regarding Trump and his supporters spreading dangerous misinformation and encouraging violence that contributed to Wednesday's events.

Jennifer Grygiel, a Syracuse University communications professor and an expert on social media, said what happened in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday is a direct result of Trump's use of social media to spread propaganda and disinformation, and that the platforms should bear some responsibility for their previous inaction.

"This is what happens," Grygiel said. "We didn't just see a breach at the Capitol. Social media platforms have been breached by the president repeatedly. This is disinformation. This was a coup attempt in the United States."

Grygiel said the platform's decision to remove the video — and Twitter's suspension — are too little, too late.

"They're creeping along towards firmer action," Grygiel said, calling Trump "Exhibit A" for the need for greater regulation of social media. "Social media is complicit in this because he has repeatedly used social media to incite violence. It's a culmination of years of propaganda and abuse of media by the president of the United States."

Trump posted the video more than two hours after protesters entered the Capitol, interrupting lawmakers meeting in a joint session to confirm the electoral college results and president-elect Joe Biden's victory.

Too little, too late?

Guy Rosen, Facebook's vice-president of integrity, said on Twitter Wednesday that the video was removed because it "contributes to rather than diminishes the risk of ongoing violence."