What Happened When Trump Was Banned on Facebook and Twitter

When Facebook and Twitter barred Donald J. Trump from their platforms after the Capitol riot in January, he lost direct access to his most powerful megaphones. On Friday, Facebook said the former president would not be allowed back on its service until at least January 2023, citing a risk to public safety.

Since his ban and President Biden's inauguration, he has posted statements online far less often. But some of his statements have traveled just as far and wide on social networks.

The reach of Trump's words before and after his ban from social media Each circle represents a statement made by Mr. Trump. The size of a circle is determined by the number of likes and shares the statement generated across Twitter, Instagram and Facebook on posts quoting it, including on Mr. Trump's own account before he was banned. Tallies of likes and shares come from the 100 most highly liked and shared posts on Facebook and Instagram for each Trump statement. (In most cases, there were fewer than 100 posts quoting each statement.) On Twitter, any posts quoting a given Trump statement that had at least 10 retweets were included.

The New York Times examined Mr. Trump's nearly 1,600 social media posts from Sept. 1 to Jan. 8, the day Mr. Trump was banned from the platforms. We then tracked the social media engagement with the dozens of written statements he made on his personal website, campaign fund-raising site and in email blasts from Jan. 9 until May 5, which was the day that the Facebook Oversight Board, which reviews some content decisions by the company, said that the company acted appropriately in kicking him off the service.

Before the ban, the social media post with the median engagement generated 272,000 likes and shares. After the ban, that dropped to 36,000 likes and shares. Yet 11 of his 89 statements after the ban attracted as many likes or shares as the median post before the ban, if not more.

How does that happen?

Mr. Trump had long been his own best promoter on social media. The vast majority of people on Twitter and Facebook interacted directly with Mr. Trump's posts, either liking or sharing them, The Times analysis found.

But after the ban, other popular social media accounts often picked up his messages and posted them themselves. (Last week, Mr. Trump shut down his blog, one of the places he made statements.)

On Oct. 8, Mr. Trump tweeted that the then-Democratic presidential candidate Joseph R. Biden Jr. and his running mate, Kamala Harris, lied "constantly." The post was liked and shared 501,000 times on Facebook and Twitter.

On March 21, Mr. Trump published a statement on his website saying that his administration had handed over "the most secure border in history." He went on to criticize the Biden administration's handling of the border crisis. "Our Country is being destroyed!" Mr. Trump said. The statement was liked and shared more than 661,000 times.

The Global Disinformation Index, a nonpartisan nonprofit that studies disinformation, examined the political leanings of the top accounts sharing Mr. Trump's statements online after he was barred from Facebook and Twitter. The group classified hundreds of accounts as either left- or right-leaning, or a mix of the two, relying on standards that it established through its work on disinformation risk ratings for news sites and other online media.

One thing that became immediately clear: Mr. Trump's most ardent supporters continue to spread his message — doing the work that he had been unable to do himself.

The top sharers of the March post included the right-wing publication Breitbart News (159,500 likes and shares), a Facebook page called "President Donald Trump Fan Club" (48,200 likes), Fox News (42,000 likes), and Jenna Ellis (36,700 likes), a lawyer who made regular television appearances as Mr. Trump's proxy to trumpet his debunked claims of a rigged election.

But when Mr. Trump criticizes conservatives, his remarks sometimes get picked up by both the left and right.

On Feb. 16, for instance, Mr. Trump derided Senator Mitch McConnell, the minority leader, because of Mr. McConnell's unwillingness to back Mr. Trump's attempts to undermine the 2020 election.