How Twitter, on the front lines of history, finally decided to ban Trump

Two days after the riot at the U.S. Capitol, Twitter's most senior policy executive faced her 5,200 colleagues on a video conference and made an impassioned appeal. Vijaya Gadde's voice was breaking as she implored her colleagues to have patience while her team deliberated over what they knew was the most important decision in the social media service's 15-year history.

Some Twitter employees left the meeting on Jan. 8 not knowing what to think. They were worried for their colleagues' safety — some had already received security threats. But they were also angry that Gadde's team had let President Trump's account back onto the service after a 12-hour ban for appearing to encourage the Capitol rioters on the day of the failed insurrection. He had already tweeted again, telling followers they were patriots who would not be disrespected.

Less than three hours after Gadde's emergency meeting, Twitter banned Trump forever. In an instant, the megaphone of the leader of the free world was wiped out, along with his following of 88 million he had built throughout his presidency — some of whom amplified his every word. And it brought to an end an era of free speech online that Twitter — which a senior executive once referred to as "the free speech wing of the free speech party" — had itself helped create.

Twitter on Jan. 8 banned President Trump from its site, a punishment for his role in inciting violence at the U.S. Capitol. (Video: Jonathan Baran/The Washington Post)

A dozen current and former employees and close observers of the company reconstructed the critical decision, marked by tearful meetings, bitter internal arguments and the culmination of years of debate within the company.

Twitter declined to comment and pointed to its lengthy company blog post on the topic.

Billionaire Twitter CEO and founder Jack Dorsey wasn't celebrating the moment. He lamented what the decision meant for the vision of an open Internet that he and his Silicon Valley peers shared when they sought to build a new type of microblogging service 15 years ago. While necessary for public safety, he said it would be "destructive to the noble purpose and ideals of the open Internet" over the long term in a tweetstorm this week, his first comments since the ban.

Dorsey, Gadde and others felt they didn't have much choice. Earlier that week, a mob of Trump supporters, following the president's calls on Twitter and in speeches, had attempted a takeover of Congress, leaving one Capitol Police officer and four others dead.