YouTube Suspends Trump's Account; Google Pauses Political Ads (Again)

Canceling The Don

The bans and account suspensions just keep on coming for President Trump. On Tuesday, YouTube said that it has suspended his channel for at least a week, The New York Times reports. YouTube, which has typically been fairly slow to crack down on problematic content, cited concern over "ongoing potential for violence" in the wake of the riot at the US Capitol last week. Trump is already permanently banned on Twitter and banned on Facebook at least until President-elect Biden's inauguration. In a tweet (oh, the irony!), YouTube's official Twitter account said that YouTube is also disabling all comments on Trump's channel indefinitely. The seven-day suspension from YouTube is an "important and necessary first step" that should become permanent, said Jim Steyer, chief executive of Common Sense Media, a nonprofit news media watchdog group. "While it is disappointing that it took a Trump-incited attack on our Capitol to get here, it appears that all the major platforms are finally beginning to step up," Steyer said.

Hitting Pause (Again)

Sticking with the "You're fired" theme, Google took things a step further on Wednesday with the announcement that it would again pause political ads on its platforms until after Inauguration Day as a result of last week's siege of the Capitol. An email from Google to advertisers said it plans to keep the policy in place until at least a day after the Biden transition, according to CNBC. "We regularly pause ads over unpredictable, 'sensitive' events when ads can be used to exploit the event or amplify misleading information," Google said in a statement. "Beyond this, we have long-standing policies blocking content that incites violence or promotes hate and we will be extremely vigilant about enforcing on any ads that cross this line." Google had previously implemented a temporary pause on ads referencing the general election until after the polls closed on Nov. 3 in an effort to stop the spread of misinformation. That ban was lifted roughly a month later in mid-December.

Parler's New Home?