This Twitter exec helped decide to ban Trump. Now she must confront Twitter getting banned abroad

New York CNN Business — Two months after former US President Donald Trump was inaugurated in 2017, Twitter (TWTR) executive Vijaya Gadde was asked how she felt about his proposition that he might not have won the White House without the social media platform.

"To me, there's nothing better than having a political discourse in plain and open view and having access to your elected officials, and being able to hold them accountable," Gadde, then Twitter's general counsel, told the audience at a New York University School of Law event. "In that sense, I think it's a great thing because this wasn't always possible before."

"Now," she added, "the consequences of that direct dialogue are unfolding in front of us and not something we could've quite predicted."

Less than three years later, the United States faced the most troubling consequence yet: A group of rioters attacked Capitol Hill on January 6 after Trump spent weeks using social media platforms to agitate his base and spread a lie that the 2020 election had been stolen.

Gadde, who by then had become head of legal, policy and trust at Twitter, found herself at the center of deciding whether to take the unprecedented step of banning Trump from Twitter.

Two days later, Twitter permanently banned Trump, citing a "risk of further incitement of violence." The move was praised by civil rights advocates who called on Facebook (FB) and YouTube to follow Twitter's lead — while others said the move should have come much sooner. Facebook (FB) had blocked Trump's accounts "indefinitely" a day earlier, a suspension that was upheld in May by the company's court-like Oversight Board and is up for review again in November. Google-owned YouTube announced a suspension of Trump's channel a week later but has left the door open for him to return to the platform.

Twitter's decision to remove Trump didn't happen immediately. The platform initially banned Trump for 12 hours on January 6. Twitter took heat when it let him back on and he quickly tweeted again, calling his followers who stormed the Capitol "patriots." The Washington Post detailed a January 8 meeting in which Gadde made an "impassioned appeal" for staffers to have patience as her team deliberated what to do. Hours later, Twitter banned Trump permanently.

Multiple outlets reported that Gadde played a central role in the Trump ban decision. Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey was reportedly vacationing on a private island at the time. (Twitter has said Dorsey was closely involved in the decision.) Asked this month about her role in banning Trump, a Twitter spokesperson told CNN Business: "Policy enforcement decisions are made by our Trust and Safety team, which report to Vijaya Gadde." The spokesperson also said Twitter has "no plans to reinstate" Trump's account.

"Vijaya is at the crossroads of some of the most important policy decisions the company is making and how it interacts with governments around the world." Former Twitter COO Adam Bain