Facebook reportedly removed a video interview with Donald Trump for violating its ban on the former president

Facebook has removed a video featuring an interview with Trump that his daughter-in-law posted.

Lara Trump said Facebook wrote in an email that the video violates its current ban on Trump.

Facebook banned Trump on January 7 after the insurrection at the US Capitol.

Facebook has removed a video that featured an interview with former President Donald Trump because it violated its current ban on him, according to Trump's daughter-in-law.

Lara Trump, the wife of Eric Trump, posted on Instagram emails that she said were from Facebook. The message said Facebook "removed content from Lara Trump's Facebook Page that featured President Trump speaking. In line with the block we placed on Donald Trump's Facebook and Instagram accounts, further content posted in the voice of Donald Trump will be removed and result in additional limitations on the accounts."

Facebook did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment, but the company confirmed to CNBC and The Verge that it did remove the video.

As Trump's supporters stormed the federal building on January 6, encouraged by his baseless claims of election fraud, the former president posted a video to his social accounts reiterating such unfounded comments. And while he told them to "go home," Trump did not condemn their actions and instead added, "we love you; you're very special."

The video prompted companies to act — Facebook removed the video and then later banned Trump on January 7. CEO Mark Zuckerberg said the ban was put in place because the "risks of allowing the President to continue to use our service during this period are simply too great," referring to the period leading up to the January 20 inauguration. President Joe Biden has since been sworn into office.

Facebook's "supreme court," an independent oversight board that reviews the company's content moderation decisions, is currently reviewing its ban on Trump. Twitter has banned Trump permanently, even if he decides to run again in 2024.

Scrutiny of the tech industry is largely a bipartisan issue, but conservatives and Democrats critique social media companies for different reasons.

Some conservatives subscribe to the belief that internet platforms discriminate against right-wing content, a theory that was stoked more so last May when Twitter opted to fact-check the former president's tweets.

Republicans have in turn increasingly lambasted tech companies and their executives in recent congressional hearings, accusing their platforms of silencing conservative voices.