Do Facebook and Google censor conservatives? Trump, Republicans bet claims they do will rally GOP base in 2022

From legislation in statehouses across the country to a lawsuit from Donald Trump, the Republican claim that powerful technology companies are biased against conservatives is emerging as a top issue to rally the base in the 2022 midterm elections.

Anti-tech sentiment may not gin up quite as much partisan fervor as the border wall, critical race theory, abortion or guns, but it's still a popular applause line with a GOP base devoted to the former president.

Online censorship accusations, in particular, resonate with conservative voters and could boost voter registration, turnout and fundraising as the GOP tries to retake the House and Senate, political observers say.

"It's a device to win elections and to keep their supporters riled up and angry and turn them out," said Geoffrey Kabaservice, vice president of political studies at the Niskanen Center.

Conservatives recently doubled down on claims that tech companies censor their speech after the Biden administration pressured Facebook to crack down on COVID-19 vaccine misinformation.

"The blatant actions by your administration to work with big tech companies to censor Americans' free speech are shocking – and arguably a violation of the First Amendment," Tennessee Republican Sen. Marsha Blackburn wrote the White House.

Trump, who was suspended from the major social media platforms after the Jan. 6 insurrection, escalated his war with Big Tech in July when he filed suit against Facebook, Google and Twitter and their CEOs, claiming the companies violated his First Amendment rights.

Trump and Republicans fundraised off the lawsuit, though legal experts say it has virtually no chance of success.

Dozens of states are considering legislation that targets how social media platforms regulate speech.

One bill passed in Florida, but was temporarily blocked by a federal judge. Another in Texas had the votes it needed in a special session of the Republican-controlled legislature, but is in limbo after Democrats left the state for Washington to protest a GOP effort to overhaul the state election system.

Both states have Republican governors who are widely seen as possible 2024 presidential contenders.

- Banning Trump from Facebook: Why Justice Clarence Thomas and other conservatives say it is First Amendment issue

- The more you know: What the First Amendment protects – and what it doesn't

The First Amendment protects people from censorship by the federal government, not from content moderation decisions by private companies. Social media companies say they don't target conservatives, only harmful speech that violates their rules.

Facebook, Google's YouTube and Twitter say they banned Trump over concerns he would incite further violence after his followers stormed the Capitol building to block Congress from certifying Biden's presidential win.